Protocol: Mqmas3qdfszf2d  Sequence: mqmas3qdfszf2d.c  Apptype: solidseq1d

Description: 

   Z-filtered MQMAS with a 3Q phase cycle, a DFS second pulse, with SPINAL 
   or TPPM decoupling. 

Parameter Groups:

mqmasX:  Module:  no
Sequence:  mqmas3qzf2d.c
Description:  Implements two-pulse MQMAS on obs with an F1 delay d2 in
              between the pulses.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXmqmas - the amplitude of the obs pulses.
       pw1Xmqmas - the first pulse of MQMAS, typically a 20 to 40-
              degree flip angle, based on the solution-state 90-degree 
              pulse.
       pw2Xmqmas - the second pulse of MQMAS, typically a 90-degree
              flip angle based on the solution-state 90-degree pulse.

3QshearX: (processing)  Module:  no
Sequence:  mqmas3qzf2d.c
Description:  Shows the parameters for MQMAS shearing for 3Q sequences.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       ival - the spin quantum number.
       daslp - first-order phase increment in F1.
       scalesw1 - scale factor for F1.
Macros:
       mqf1shear - sets daslp.
       mqf1ref3q - scales F1 to correspond to a "split-t1" dwell time.
       mqf1ref3qs- scales F1 according to the procedure of Amoureux
              and Pruski.

dfsX:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  onepuldfs.c (alias dfspX)
Description:  Implements a "double frequency sweep", DFS, pulse on the
              obs channel.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXdfs - amplitude of obs DFS pulse.
       pwXdfs - width of the DFS pulse.
       of1Xdfs - initial frequency.
       of2Xdfs - final frequency.
       chXdfs = 'obs' must be set (not shown).
Implementation:  MPSEQ dfs = getdfs("dfsX",0,0.0,0.0,0,1);
Underscore function: _mpseq(dfs);

zfselX:  Module:  no
Sequence:  mqmas3qzf2d.c
Description:  Implements a selective, square 90-degree pulse with both
              amplitude and attenuation control to provide a Z-filter
              in MQMAS and STMAS experiments.  The amplitude change takes
              3.0 us during the t1Xzfsel delay. The attenuation must be
              reset for further hard pulses.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXzfsel - amplitude of the selective obs Z-filter pulse.
       dbXzfsel - attenuator setting for the selective obs Z-filter
              pulse.
       tXzfsel - delay before the refocusing pulse requires a minimum
              value of 3.0 us for the attenuator change.
       pwXzfsel - selective 90-degree flip on obs.

Hseq:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description: Chooses SPINAL or TPPM decoupling on the dec channel
             during acquisition
Parameters:  Sequence Page - the Hspinal and Htppm groups overlap
       Hseq - chooses the decoupling sequence, TPPM or SPINAL.
Implementation:  DSEQ dec = getdseq("H");  The router implements
             getspinal() or gettppm().
Underscore functions: _dseqon(dec); runs _tppm(); or _spinal();_
             dseqoff(dec); runs decprgoff();

Hspinal:  Module:  yes
Sequence: tancpx.c
Description:  Implements SPINAL decouping on the dec channel during
              acquisition.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHspinal - amplitude of the dec channel.
       pwHspinal - approximate 180-degree flip angle on resonance.
       phHspinal - +/- small angle phase. SPINAL64 is implemented
              with phases = +/- 1.0, +/- 1.5 and +/-2.0 times
              phHspinal.
       chHspinal = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: SPINAL dec = getspinal("H"); or DSEQ dec =
              getdseq("H");
Underscore functions: _spinal(dec); and decprgoff(); or
             _dseqon(dec); and _dseqoff(dec);

Htppm:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description:  Implements TPPM decoupling on the dec channel during
              acquisition.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHtppm - amplitude of the dec channel.
       pwHtppm - approximate 180-degree flip angle on resonance.
       phHtppm - +/- small angle phase. TPPM is implemented
              with phases = +/- 1.0 times phHtppm for alternating
              pulses.
       chHtppm = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: TPPM dec = gettppm("H"); or DSEQ dec = getdseq("H");
Underscore functions: _tppmon(dec); and decprgoff(); or _dseqon(dec);
              and _dseqoff(dec);
