Protocol: Mqmas3qfam2spltse2d  Sequence: mqmas3qfam2spltse2d.c  Apptype: solidseq1d

Description: 

   Two-pulse MQMAS with a 3Q phase cycle, a FAM2 second pulse, a split-T1  
   and a selective echo, with SPINAL or TPPM decoupling.

Parameter Groups:

mqmasX:  Module:  no
Sequence:  mqmas3qzf2d.c
Description:  Implements two-pulse MQMAS on obs with an F1 delay d2 in
              between the pulses.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXmqmas - the amplitude of the obs pulses.
       pw1Xmqmas - the first pulse of MQMAS, typically a 20 to 40-
              degree flip angle, based on the solution-state 90-degree 
              pulse.
       pw2Xmqmas - the second pulse of MQMAS, typically a 90-degree
              flip angle based on the solution-state 90-degree pulse.

echselX:  Module:  no
Sequence:  mqmas3qse2d.c
Description:  Implements a selective, square refocusing pulse with both
              amplitude and attenuation control to provide a selective echo
              in MQMAS and STMAS experiments. The amplitude change requires
              3.0 ms during the t1Xechsel delay. The attenuation is not reset.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXechsel - amplitude of the obs selective echo pulse.
       dbXechsel - attenuator setting for the obs selective echo pulse.
       tXechsel - delay before the refocusing pulse requires a minimum
              value of 3.0 us for the attenuator change.
       pwXechsel - a selective 180-degree flip on obs.

fam2X:  Module: no
Sequence:  mqmas3qfam2spltse2d.c
Description:  Implements a "fast amplitude modulation", FAM2, pulse o
              the obs channel.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXfam2 - amplitude of obs FAM2 pulse.
       pw1fam2 - pulse time on obs.
       pw2fam2 - delay time on obs.
       pw3fam2 - pulse time on obs.
       pw4fam2 - delay time on obs.
       nXfam2 - repetitions of FAM2 

Hseq:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description: Chooses SPINAL or TPPM decoupling on the dec channel
             during acquisition
Parameters:  Sequence Page - the Hspinal and Htppm groups overlap
       Hseq - chooses the decoupling sequence, TPPM or SPINAL.
Implementation:  DSEQ dec = getdseq("H");  The router implements
             getspinal() or gettppm().
Underscore functions: _dseqon(dec); runs _tppm(); or _spinal();_
             dseqoff(dec); runs decprgoff();

Hspinal:  Module:  yes
Sequence: tancpx.c
Description:  Implements SPINAL decouping on the dec channel during
              acquisition.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHspinal - amplitude of the dec channel.
       pwHspinal - approximate 180-degree flip angle on resonance.
       phHspinal - +/- small angle phase. SPINAL64 is implemented
              with phases = +/- 1.0, +/- 1.5 and +/-2.0 times
              phHspinal.
       chHspinal = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: SPINAL dec = getspinal("H"); or DSEQ dec =
              getdseq("H");
Underscore functions: _spinal(dec); and decprgoff(); or
             _dseqon(dec); and _dseqoff(dec);

Htppm:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description:  Implements TPPM decoupling on the dec channel during
              acquisition.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHtppm - amplitude of the dec channel.
       pwHtppm - approximate 180-degree flip angle on resonance.
       phHtppm - +/- small angle phase. TPPM is implemented
              with phases = +/- 1.0 times phHtppm for alternating
              pulses.
       chHtppm = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: TPPM dec = gettppm("H"); or DSEQ dec = getdseq("H");
Underscore functions: _tppmon(dec); and decprgoff(); or _dseqon(dec);
              and _dseqoff(dec);
