Protocol: Stmasdqfse2d  Sequence: stmasdqfse2d.c  Apptype: solidseq1d

Description:
 
   Four-pulse STMAS with a selective echo and a double quantum filter,
   with SPINAL or TPPM decoupling.

Setup: 

   Load a calibrated data set and select the protocol Stmasdqfse2d.

   Select the desired decoupling method, TPPM or SPINAL. The manual file 
   for Onepul has instructions to calibrate decoupling. 

Parameter Groups:

stmasX:  Module:  no
Sequence:  stmas2d.c
Description:  Implements two-pulse STMAS with an F1 delay d2 between the
              pulses.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXstmas - the amplitude of the obs pulses.
       pw1Xstmas - the first pulse of STMAS.
       pw2Xstmas - the second pulse of STMAS.

STshearX: (processing)  Module:  no
Sequence:  stmas2df2d.c
Description:  Shows the parameters for STMAS shearing.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       ival - the spin quantum number.
       mval - the Z quantum number
       daslp - first-order phase increment in F1.
       scalesw1 - scale factor for F1.
Macros:
       mqf1ref - sets daslp, scales f1 and references it.

echselX:  Module:  no
Sequence:  mqmas3qse2d.c
Description:  Implements a selective, square refocusing pulse with both
              amplitude and attenuation control to provide a selective echo
              in MQMAS and STMAS experiments. The amplitude change requires
              3.0 ms during the t1Xechsel delay. The attenuation is not reset.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aXechsel - amplitude of the obs selective echo pulse.
       dbXechsel - attenuator setting for the obs selective echo pulse.
       tXechsel - delay before the refocusing pulse requires a minimum
              value of 3.0 us for the attenuator change.
       pwXechsel - a selective 180-degree flip on obs.

Hseq:  Module:  yes 
Sequence:  tancpx.c      
Description: Chooses SPINAL or TPPM decoupling on the dec channel 
             during acquisition.
Parameters:  Sequence Page - the Hspinal and Htppm groups overlap.
       Hseq - chooses the decoupling sequence, TPPM or SPINAL. 
Implementation:  DSEQ dec = getdseq("H");  The router implements 
             getspinal() or gettppm(). 
Underscore functions: _dseqon(dec); runs _tppm(); or _spinal();_
             dseqoff(dec); runs decprgoff();  

Hspinal:  Module:  yes 
Sequence: tancpx.c  
Description:  Implements SPINAL decoupling on the dec channel during 
              acquisition.  
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHspinal - amplitude of the dec channel. 
       pwHspinal - approximate 180-degree flip angle on resonance. 
       phHspinal - +/- small angle phase. SPINAL64 is implemented 
              with phases = +/- 1.0, +/- 1.5 and +/-2.0 times 
              phHspinal. 
       chHspinal = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: SPINAL dec = getspinal("H"); or DSEQ dec = 
              getdseq("H");  
Underscore functions: _spinal(dec); and decprgoff(); or 
             _dseqon(dec); and _dseqoff(dec);   

Htppm:  Module:  yes 
Sequence:  tancpx.c      
Description:  Implements TPPM decoupling on the dec channel during 
              acquisition.  
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHtppm - amplitude of the dec channel. 
       pwHtppm - approximate 180-degree flip angle on resonance. 
       phHtppm - +/- small angle phase. TPPM is implemented 
              with phases = +/- 1.0 times phHtppm for alternating 
              pulses.  
       chHtppm = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: TPPM dec = gettppm("H"); or DSEQ dec = getdseq("H");   
Underscore functions: _tppmon(dec); and decprgoff(); or _dseqon(dec);
              and _dseqoff(dec);
