Protocol: Tancpxdumbo  Sequence: tancpxdumbo.c  Apptype: solidseq1d

Description: 

   A tangent CP preparation with DUMBO decoupling during acquisition.

Additonal Software: 

  reset_pmlg - sets the values of DUMBO from aH90 and pwH90. 

Parameter Groups: 

90H:  Module:  no
Sequence:  tancpx.c  
Description:  Provides a 90-degree pulse on dec that can be used as a 
              preparation pulse.  Also used to store the dec calibration.
Parameters:  Channels Page
       aH90  - the amplitude of the pulse.
       pwH90 - the pulse length.

cpHX:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description:  Implements constant, linear or tangent-ramped cross 
              polarization from dec to obs. 
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       shHX - 'c', constant, 'l', linear and 't', tangent shape on the 
channel designated with 
                      chHX. 
       chHX - the variable-amplitude channel, 'fr' from or 'to', to. 
       aHhx - median amplitude of the dec channel.
       aXhx - median amplitude of the obs channel.
       bHX - +/- tangent curvature (>0 to 1.0e5).  
       dHX - amplitude width of the ramp. A negative width sets a ramp 
              that starts high and decreases in amplitude.
       tHX - contact time
       ofHX - overall offset on the variable channel
       frHX = 'dec' -  channel with the initial polarization (must be 
             set - not shown).           
       toHX = 'obs' -  channel with the final polarization (must be set 
             - not shown). 
Implementation:  CP hx = getcp("HX",0.0,0.0,0,1); 
Underscore functions: _cp_(hx,phHhx,phxhx);  
 
dumboH:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpxdumbo.c
Description:  Implements DUMBO homonuclear decoupling on the dec
              channel.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHdumbo - amplitude of the DUMBO on dec.
       pwHdumbo - 1080-degree flip on dec (the length of full a DUMBO
              cycle).
       nHdumbo - DUMBO cycles represented in the .DEC file.
       ofHdumbo - overall frequency offset.
       chHdumbo = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation:  MPSEQ dumbo = getdumbo("dumboH",0,0.0,0.0,0,1);
Underscore functions: _MPSEQ functions.

  


 


