Protocol: Tancpxpmlg  Sequence: tancpxpmlg.c  Apptype: solidseq1d

Description: 

   "X" tangent CP preparation with PMLG decoupling during acquisition.

Additional Software:

   reset_pmlg - sets the values of PMLG from aH90 and pwH90. 

Parameter Groups 

90H:  Module:  no
Sequence:  tancpx.c  
Description:  Provides a 90-degree pulse on dec that can be used 
              as a preparation pulse. Also used to store the dec 
              calibration.
Parameters:  Channels Page
       aH90  - the amplitude of the pulse.
       pwH90 - the pulse length.

cpHX:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description:  Implements constant, linear or tangent-ramped cross 
              polarization from dec to obs. 
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       shHX - 'c', constant, 'l', linear and 't', tangent shape on
               the channel designated with chHX. 
       chHX - the variable-amplitude channel, 'fr' from or 'to', to. 
       aHhx - median amplitude of the dec channel.
       aXhx - median amplitude of the obs channel.
       bHX -  +/- tangent curvature (>0 to 1.0e5).  
       dHX -  amplitude width of the ramp. A negative width sets a
              ramp that starts high and decreases in amplitude.
       tHX -  contact time
       ofHX - overall offset on the variable channel
       frHX = 'dec' -  channel with the initial polarization (must 
              be set - not shown).           
       toHX = 'obs' -  channel with the final polarization (must be
              set - not shown). 
Implementation:  CP hx = getcp("HX",0.0,0.0,0,1); 
Underscore functions: _cp_(hx, phHhx, phXhx);  

pmlgH:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpxpmlg.c
Description:  Implements "phase modulated Lee Goldburg", PMLG,
              homonuclear decoupling on the dec channel.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHpmlg - amplitude of PMLG dec pulses.
       pwHpmlg - 360-degree flip on dec, off resonance (the length of
              each of the two PMLG pulses).
       nHpmlg - PMLG cycles represented in the .DEC file.
       qHpmlg - number of phase steps in that make up pwHpmlg. A
              negative value implements descending phases in the
              first pulse.
       chHpmlg = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation: MPSEQ pmlg = getpmlg("pmlgH",0,0.0,0.0,0,1);
Underscore functions: _MPSEQ functions.
