Protocol: Tancpxpips Sequence: tancpxpips.c  Apptype: solidseq1d

Description:
        Constant, Linear or tangent ramped cross polarization followed by 
        PIPSxy decoupling if aHpips > 0. 

Parameter Groups:

90H:  Module:  no
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description:   Provides a 90-degree pulse on dec that can be used as a
               preparation pulse. Also used to store the dec calibration.
Parameters:  Channels Page
       aH90  - the amplitude of the pulse.
       pwH90 - the pulse length.

cpHX:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpx.c
Description:  Implements constant, linear or tangent-ramped cross
              polarization from dec to obs.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       shHX - 'c', constant, 'l', linear and 't', tangent shape on the
              channel designated with chHX.
       chHX - the variable-amplitude channel, 'fr' from or 'to', to.
       aHhx - median amplitude of the dec channel.
       aXhx - median amplitude of the obs channel.
       bHX - +/- tangent curvature (>0 to 1.0e5).
       dHX - amplitude width of the ramp. A negative width sets a ramp
              that starts high and decreases in amplitude.
       tHX - contact time
       ofHX - overall offset on the variable channel
       frHX = 'dec' -  channel with the initial polarization (must be
              set - not shown).
       toHX = 'obs' -  channel with the final polarization (must be set
              - not shown).
Implementation:  CP hx = getcp("HX",0.0,0.0,0,1);
Underscore functions: _cp_(hx, phHhx, phXhx);

pipsH:  Module:  yes
Sequence:  tancpxpips.c
Description:  Implements pi-pulse PIPSxy decoupling on the dec channel.
Parameters:  Sequence Page
       aHpips - amplitude of dec pulses.
       pwHpips - 90-degree flip on dec.
       nHpips - rotor cycles between PI pulses.
       qHpips - PIPS cycles represented in the .DEC file.
       ofHpips - overall frequency offset.
       chHpips = 'dec' must be set (not shown).
Implementation:  MPSEQ pips = getpipsxy("pipsH",0,0.0,0.0,0,1);
Underscore functions: _MPSEQ functions.
