
addi	Start interactive add/subtract mode (C)

Starts the interactive add/subtract mode. Before entering addi, start the
process with clradd and spadd, then display a second spectrum on the screen.
This may involve changing experiments, selecting a second member of an
array of spectra, a different trace of a 2D spectrum, or displaying a spin
simulated spectrum. The Fourier numbers (fn) must be the same in the two
spectra to be manipulated. The width (sw) of the two spectra need not be
identical, although adding spectra of different widths will probably not
be meaningful. Having selected the second spectrum and ensuring it is in
nm mode, enter addi to begin the interactive process.

After addi is invoked, spectrum 1, the spectrum selected by the spadd
command, appears in the center of the display. Spectrum 2, the spectrum
that was active when addi was entered, appears on the bottom. The sum
or difference of these spectra appears on top of the screen. When addi
is first entered, this spectrum will be the sum (1 + 2) by default.
The spectra is manipulated using the mouse.

The select button toggles between different modes of control. 
  When the label at the screen bottom reads “active: current”, all
  of the parameters (except wp) control spectrum 1, and spectrum 1
  can be phased, scaled, or shifted relative to spectrum 2. 
  After clicking on select, the label at the screen bottom reads
  “active: addsub”, and now all of the parameters except wp control
  spectrum 2. 
  Clicking select again toggles the label to read “active: result”,
  and now parameter changes affect only the sum or difference spectrum.
Note that wp always controls all spectra, because differential expansions
of the two spectra are not supported. Note also that the colors of the
labels change to match the colors of the different spectra.

The sum/difference spectrum displayed on the screen while addi is
active is strictly a temporary display. Once all manipulations have
been performed, and assuming the sum/difference is something you wish
to perform further operations with (such as plotting), it must be
saved into the add/subtract experiment (exp5) by clicking on save.
At this point, spectrum 1, which was in the add/subtract experiment,
is overwritten by the sum or difference spectrum, and addi ceases
operation. In most cases, you will next want to enter jexp5 ds to
display the difference spectrum on the screen, ready for further
manipulation (expansion, line listing, etc.) and plotting. If you
wish to continue with the add/subtract process by adding in a
third spectrum, display that spectrum in the usual way and enter
addi again.

THe colors of current, addsub, result spectra can be controled from
the "Display options..." popup in the "Edit" menu. They are set by
the "Spectrum", "Imaginary" and "Threshold" colors, respectively.

Related:
clradd      Clear add/subtract experiment (C)
jexp         Join existing experiment (C)
nm          Select normalized intensity mode (C)
spadd       Add current spectrum to add/subtract experiment (C)
spmin       Take minimum of two spectra in add/subtract experiment (C)
spsub       Subtract current spectrum from add/subtract experiment (C)
wp          Width of plot in directly detected dimension (P)

