
atcmd('macro','timespec')
atcmd('macro','timespec','active')
atcmd('macro','timespec','start')
atcmd('macro','timespec','active','start')
atcmd('macro','cancel')
atcmd('macro','list')
atcmd('macro','list'):$timestamp,$user
atcmd('macro','next'):$seconds
atcmd

The atcmd will call a macro at the specified time.  It only functions
on a spectrometer.

When an atcmd is executed, a background Vnmr is started. It reads the
command to execute from the atcmd database. This background Vnmr will
not be started in an experiment. Therefore, the macro will need to execute
a jexp or run commands or macros which do not need experiment parameters.
It will have access to global and systemglobal parameters.  The bootup macro
will not be executed automatically. It can be called from the atcmd macro.

If the 'active' argument is given, the macro will be executed
by the Vnmr process that specified the atcmd. If that process is no longer
active, the macro will be removed from the database. If that Vnmr process
is still active, then the background Vnmr sends a message to the "active"
foreground Vnmr with the write('net',....) command. The actual format is

write('net',<host>,<port>,`<atCommand>`)

where <host> and <port> identify where to send the <atCommand>.  Note the
back-quotes around the <atCommand>. If the command line specified to atcmd
uses quotes, it should use forward quotes. Otherwise, the write command
will give a syntax error. For example, if one uses the command
  atcmd(`echo('good morning')`,<timespec>,'active')
the write command will be
  write('net',<host>,<port>,`echo('good morning')`)
which is correct. However, if one reversed the use of forward and
backward quotes, as in:
  atcmd('echo(`good morning`)',<timespec>,'active')
the write command will be
  write('net',<host>,<port>,`echo(`good morning`)`)
which will give a syntax error.

When atcmd is called with a timespec argument, it updates the database
with the supplied information.  It does not start the process which will
call the macros at the specified times, unless the 'start' option is given
along with the 'timespec' option.  The atcmd with no arguments will also
start the program that will call the macros at the specified times.

The timespec has two different formats. One specifies an hour and minute
when the processing will occur. The other specifies the delay, in seconds,
from the current time when the processing will occur.

The first format is:
  hh:mm <mon tue wed thur fri sat sun>
A 24 hour clock is used.  midnight is 0:0, noon is 12:00.
If the optional day field is used, the command will be repeated
on that day at the appointed time.  The day fields are case
insensitive.  For monday, wednesday, and friday only a single
character is needed.  More can be used.  For tuesday, thursday,
saturday, and sunday, at least two characters must be given.

The second format is simply a number, such as 0 or 10.

If the cancel argument is given, it will cancel all the commands
that match the supplied macro. For example, if you specify cmda
to be run at 8:00 on mon and 9:00 on tue, then atcmd('cmda','cancel')
will cancel both of them.  If the macro is '', the cancel
option will cancel all atcmd macros.

The list option will list the timespec for all the atcmds that
match the supplied macro.  If the macro is '', the list
option will list all of the atcmd macros and their timespecs.

If the atcmd specifies a specific macro and the list option, the
timestamp and user that submitted the atcmd can be returned to
the macro. For example, atcmd('cmda','list'):$timestamp,$user
would set the macro parameters. If cmda has not been specified to
at a specified time, empty strings will be returned.

The 'next' option will return the number of seconds until the specified
macro will run. A macro must be supplied as the first argument.
If the supplied macro is not scheduled, a -1 will be returned.
If the scheduled time for the macro has already past, a -2 will
be returned. This can happen if the "procs" have been stopped or the
atcmd process has not been started. Otherwise, the number of seconds
from the current time until the macro will be executed will be
returned.

When the command specified by the atcmd is executed in background,
it will be executed using the envirnoment of the user who requested
the atcmd.  Also, the background Vnmr will initially not be joined
to a specific experiment.

Examples:

atcmd(`echo('good morning')`,'8:00 mon tue wed thu fri')
   will display a welcome message every weekday at 8:00 am.

atcmd(`echo('What are you doing here on a weekend?')`,'8:00 Sat Sun')
   will question your intentions on the weekend.

atcmd('startNightQueue','22:00')
   will run the macro startNightQueue at 22 hr (10:00pm).

atcmd('dosomething',0,'start')
   will run the macro dosomething zero seconds from now, that is,
   immediately. The 'start' option simply avoids the need to follow
   this command with an atcmd with no arguments.

atcmd('startNightQueue','cancel')
   will cancel the scheduled startNightQueue cmd

atcmd('','cancel')
   will cancel all scheduled commands

atcmd('','list')
   will list all scheduled commands

atcmd('startNightQueue','list'):$time,$user
   will return the timestamp and owner to the calling macro

atcmd('dosomething','next'):$sec
   will return number of seconds until the dosomething macro
   will be executed.
