Carbon 1D spectrum:

START

 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface.
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary).
 3. From the experiment menu select "Carbon 1D" option (Hold the 
    right mouse at the menu button next to the experiment list and 
    scroll down to Carbon 1D selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would prefer 
    to lock and shim manually)
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is completed 
    (If no filename is given the login name will be used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button.   (Standard carbon parameters will be 
    recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per your 
    choice in steps 3-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, this would 
    be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE 

(You can skip to step 24 if you opt to use the default settings)
 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will be 
    unmasked and three new buttons appear.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire.
12. Select Relaxation delay.
13. Enter tip angle (observe pulse) at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
14. Click "Close" button to select your custom options (you may 
    click "Do" if you want to skip customizing processing and 
    plotting options - steps 15-23.   This will start acquisition.)
15. Click Process button to open Process customization window
16. Enter Fourier number and click "Set".  Click "No" to use 
    default Fourier number.
17. Enter Line-boradening factor and click "Set".  Click "No" to 
    turn off line-broadening.
18. Click "Close" button to select your custom process options 
    (Do not click "Process" button)
19. Click Plot button to open Plot customization window.
20. Select default, displayed or  full spectrum for the plot region.
21. From the parameter plotting menu, select how you want your parameter
    to be plotted.
22. From the peak picking menu, select peak-picking option
23. Click "Close Plot" button to select your custom plot options 
    (Do not click "Do Plot" button)

ACQUIRE
24. If you did not start the acquisition in step 14, click 
    the GO button in the Glide menu to start acquisition.

The carbon spectrum will be acquired, processed, plotted and saved 
according to your custom choices.  
The fid will be saved as CARBON.fid under the directory 
vnmrsys/data/filename-date.
If this directory already exists, then the fid will be saved under 
the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

