Calibrate H,C,Ind.Det.&Grad. (CH3I):

This calibration routine will do calibration of H1 and C13 observe, 
H1 and C13 decouple (pulses as well as gammaH2) and gradient 
calibration using Indirect Detection I sample (C13 enriched CH3I 
in CDCl3).  Specific calibration routines can be selected in 
the custom menu.

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert Indirect Detection 
    (CH3I in CDCl3) sample. Tune probe.
 3. From the experiment menu select "Calibrate H,C,Ind.Det.&Grad. (CH3I)" 
    option (Hold the right mouse at the menu button next to the experiment 
    list and scroll down to Calibrate H,C,Ind.Det.&Grad. (CH3I) selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select CDCl3.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would prefer 
    to lock and shim manually).
 6. Click the setup button.
 7. Click on "Confirm" in the sample confirmation window.
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, this would 
    be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE & ACQUIRE 

 8. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will be 
    unmasked and there will be a new button for Acquire Customization.
 9. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
10. Select your choice(s) of calibration routines.  [Irrespective 
    of the order of selection, the following will the calibration order:
    H1 observe, gradient, C13 decouple, H1-C13 gradient ratio, 
    C13 observe and H1 decouple.   
    However, if a particular routine is not selected, it will be skipped].
11. Enter the "Target" pw90 for H1 and C13 observe and decoupler pulses.   
    This will typically be the H1 and C13 pulse specification of your probe.
12. Click "Do"  button to start the calibration routine.

At the end of the calibration routine, the power and pulse width values will be automatically incorporated into the probe file.

