C13 & DEPT Experiments:

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface.
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary).
 3. From the experiment menu select "C13 and DEPT only" option 
    (Hold the right mouse at the menu button next to the experiment 
    list and scroll down to "C13 and DEPT only" selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would prefer 
    to lock and shim manually.
    Note that the Autoshimming and Autolocking will be done only 
    once prior to the carbon 1D acquisition and will be turned off 
    before the DEPT acquisition)
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is 
    completed (If no filename is given the login name will be 
    used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button. (Standard carbon  parameters will be 
    recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per 
    your choice in steps 4-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, this would 
    be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE 

(You can skip step 16, if you opt to use the default settings)
 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will
    be unmasked and there will be a new button for Acquire Customization.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for carbon spectrum.
12. Select Relaxation delay for carbon spectrum.
13. Enter Pulse angle for carbon spectrum at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
14. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire 
    for DEPT experiment.
15. Click "Do"  button to select your custom options and start acquisition

ACQUIRE

16. If you did not start the acquisition in step 16, click the GO 
    button in the Glide menu to start acquisition.

Carbon and DEPT spectra will be acquired (as per your custom choices),
processed, plotted (as per default) and saved.
The fids will be saved as CARBON.fid and DEPT.fid under the directory 
vnmrsys/data/filename-date.
If this directory already exists, then the fid will be saved under 
the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

