C13 & C13 Detected Experiments:

[Note: As an example, a experiment chain of proton, carbon, APT 
and HETCOR is described below.]

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface.
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary).
 3. From the experiment menu select "C13 and C13 detected Experiments" 
    option (Hold the right mouse at the menu button next to the 
    experiment list and scroll down to "C13 & C13 Detected Experiments"
    selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would prefer 
    to lock and shim manually.   Note that the Autoshimming and 
    Autolocking will be done only once prior to the first 
    acquisition and will be turned off before other  acquisitions)
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is completed 
    (If no filename is given the login name will be used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button. (Standard carbon  parameters will be 
    recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per your 
    choice in steps 4-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, this would 
    be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE

 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will be 
    unmasked and there will be a new button for Acquire Customization.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for carbon 1D.
12. Select Relaxation delay for carbon 1D.
13. Enter Pulse angle for carbon 1D at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "Default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
14. Select PROTON experiment.   A new window will appear for 
    PROTON parameter customization. 
15. Select spectral window for your proton spectrum.
16. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for proton 1D.
17. Select Relaxation delay for proton 1D.
18. Enter Pulse angle for proton 1D at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
19. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time current carbon 
    parameters will be saved and standard proton  parameters will 
    be recalled.   PROTON will always be the first experiment in 
    the chain followed by CARBON and then other selections.   
    However, all customizations done in steps 4-8, and 11-13 for 
    CARBON experiments will be retained and applied prior to 
    CARBON acquisition.)
20. Select APT experiment.   A new window will appear for APT parameter 
    customization. 
21. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for APT experiment.
22. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time APT is added 
    to the experiment chain)
23. Select HETCOR experiment.   A new window will appear for HETCOR 
    parameter customization. 
24. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire 
    for HETCOR experiment.
25. Select Number of increments you would like to acquire for 
    HETCOR experiment.
26. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time HETCOR is 
    added to the experiment chain)
[NOTE: The selection order will be the acquisition order, 
except for PROTON which will always be run first.   To remove a 
selection from the experiment chain, deselect it by clicking on 
the button again.   For example, clicking the HETCOR button 
a 2nd time will deselect it and remove any saved parameter 
customization for HETCOR]

ACQUIRE
27. Click "Do"  button to select your custom options and start acquisition

Spectra will be acquired (as per your custom choices and the order 
of experiment selection), processed, plotted (1D's & absolute 
value 2D's only) and saved. The fids will be saved as PROTON.fid, 
CARBON.fid, APT.fid, and HETCOR.fid under the directory 
vnmrsys/data/filename-date.   If this directory already exists, 
then the fid will be saved under the directory 
vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

