H1 & COSY Experiments:

[Note: Depending on whether the probe is a PFG probe or not, 
this selection automatically chooses gCOSY (PFG probe) or COSY 
(non-PFG probe) experiment.]

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface.
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary).
 3. From the experiment menu select "H1 and COSY only" option (Hold 
    the right mouse at the menu button next to the experiment list 
    and scroll down to "H1 and COSY only" selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would 
    prefer to lock and shim manually.   Note that the Autoshimming 
    and Autolocking will be done only once prior to the proton 1D 
    acquisition and will be turned off before the COSY acquisition)
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is 
    completed (If no filename is given the login name will be 
    used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button. (Standard proton  parameters will 
    be recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per 
    your chice in steps 4-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, this 
    would be the time to do manual lock and shim]
 
CUSTOMIZE 
(You can skip to step 18 if you opt to use the default settings)
 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will be 
    unmasked and there will be a new button for Acquire Customization.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select spectral window for your proton spectrum.
12. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for proton 1D.
13. Select Relaxation delay for proton 1D.
14. Enter tip angle for proton 1D at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "Default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
15. Select Number of increments you would like to acquire for COSY experiment.
16. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire 
    for COSY experiment.
17. Click "Do"  button to select your custom options and start acquisition

ACQUIRE

18. If you did not start the acquisition in step 17, click 
    the GO button in the Glide menu to start acquisition.

Proton and COSY (or gCOSY) spectra will be acquired (as per your 
custom choices), processed, plotted (as per default) and saved.  
The fids will be saved as PROTON.fid and COSY.fid (or gCOSY.fid) 
under the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date.   
If this directory already exists, then the fid will be saved under 
the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

