H1 & H1 Detected Experiments:

[Note: As an example, a experiment chain of H1, gCOSY, HMQC, gHMBC 
and HSQCTOXY is described below. This example assumes that a PFG
probe is used, otherwhise the gEXPs will not show.]

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface.
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary).
 3. From the experiment menu select "H1 and  H1 detected Expt."
    option (Hold the right mouse at the menu button next to 
    the experiment list and scroll down to "H1 and H1 Detected Expt"
    selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would 
    prefer to lock and shim manually.   Note that the 
    Autoshimming and Autolocking will be done only once prior 
    to the proton 1D acquisition and will be turned off before 
    other  acquisitions)
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is 
    completed (If no filename is given the login name will 
    be used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button. (Standard proton  parameters will be 
    recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per 
    your chice in steps 4-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, 
    this would be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE
 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button 
    will be unmasked and there will be a new button for 
    Acquire Customization.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select spectral window for your proton spectrum.
12. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for proton 1D.
13. Select Relaxation delay for proton 1D.
14. Enter Pulse angle for proton 1D at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
15. Select gCOSY experiment.   A new window will appear for gCOSY 
    parameter customization. 
16. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire 
    for gCOSY experiment.
17. Select Number of increments you would like to acquire for gCOSY
    experiment.
18. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time gCOSY is 
    added to the experiment chain)
19. Select HMQC experiment.   A new window will appear for HMQC 
    parameter customization. 
20. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire 
    for HMQC experiment.
21. Select Number of increments you would like to acquire for HMQC 
    experiment.
22. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time HMQC is 
    added to the experiment chain)
22. Select gHMBC experiment.   A new window will appear for gHMBC 
    parameter customization. 
23. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire 
    for gHMBC experiment.
24. Select Number of increments you would like to acquire for gHMBC 
    experiment.
25. Select the long-range CH coupling constant you want to optimize 
    gHMBC for.
26. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time gHMBC is added 
    to the experiment chain)
27. Select HSQCTOXY experiment. A new window will appear for HSQCTOXY 
    parameter customization. 
28. Select Number of scans per increment you would like to acquire for 
    HSQCTOXY experiment.
29. Select Number of increments you would like to acquire for HSQCTOXY 
    experiment.
30. Select TOCSY mixing time for HSQCTOXY experiment.
31. Select the "fate" of direct responses in HSQCTOXY experiment.
32. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time HSQCTOXY is 
    added to the experiment chain)

[NOTE: The selection order will be the acquisition order.   
To remove a selection from the experiment chain, deselect it 
by clicking on the button again.   For example, clicking the 
HSQCTOXY button a 2nd time will deselect it and remove any 
saved parameter customization for HSQCTOXY]

ACQUIRE

33. Click "Do"  button to select your custom options and 
    start acquisition

Spectra will be acquired (as per your custom choices and the 
order of experiment selection), processed, plotted (Proton, 
and absolute value 2D's only) and saved. The fids will be 
saved as PROTON.fid, gCOSY.fid, HMQC.fid, gHMBC.fid and 
HSQCTOXY.fid under the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date.
If this directory already exists, then the fid will be saved 
under the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

