H1 & Selective 1D Experiments:

[Note: As an example, a experiment chain of proton, TOCSY1D and 
NOESY1D is described below.]

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface.
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary).
 3. From the experiment menu select "H1 and selective 1D Expt."
    option (Hold the right mouse at the menu button next to the 
    experiment list and scroll down to "H1 & Selective 1D Expt"
    selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options if 
    your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would prefer 
    to lock and shim manually.   Note that the Autoshimming and 
    Autolocking will be done only once prior to the proton 1D 
    acquisition and will be turned off before other  acquisitions)
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is 
    completed (If no filename is given the login name will be 
    used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button. (Standard proton  parameters will be 
    recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per 
    your chice in steps 4-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, 
    this would be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE

 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will be 
    unmasked and there will be a new button for Acquire Customization.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select spectral window for your proton spectrum.
12. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for proton 1D.
13. Select Relaxation delay for proton 1D.
14. Enter Pulse angle for proton 1D at the input field and click 
    "Set", or click "Default" to pick 45 deg tip angle.
15. Select TOCSY1D experiment.   A new window will appear for 
    TOCSY1D parameter customization. 
16. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for TOCSY1D 
    experiment.
17. Select spin lock mixing time for TOCSY1D experiment.  
    [Select "Array" if you want an array of mixing time 0-150 ms 
    in 15 ms steps].
18. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time TOCSY1D is 
    added to the experiment chain)
19. Select NOESY1D experiment.   A new window will appear for 
    NOESY1D parameter customization. 
20. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire for NOESY1D
     experiment.
21. Select nOe mixing time for NOESY1D experiment.
22. Click "OK" to save these selection (At this time NOESY1D is 
    added to the experiment chain)
[NOTE: The selection order will be the acquisition order.   
To remove a selection from the experiment chain, deselect it by 
clicking on the button again.   For example, clicking the 
NOESY1D button a 2nd time will deselect it and remove any saved 
parameter customization for NOESY1D]

ACQUIRE

23. Click "Do"  button to select your custom options and start acquisition

Proton spectrum will be acquired (as per your custom choices), 
processed, plotted (default choices) and saved. TOCSY1D experiment 
parameters will be set up and the proton spectrum will be displayed.

24. Place 2 cursors (use left and right mouse buttons) on either 
    side of the peak you want to select for TOCSY1D [expand the 
    proton spectrum as needed] and click the menu button "select".
25. Additional peaks can be selected (as many as you wish) by 
    repeating step 24 for a series of TOCSY1D spectra.
26. When all the peak selections are done, click on the menu 
    button "proceed" to start a series of TOCSY1D acquisition.

TOCSY1D spectra will be acquired (as per your custom choices) and 
individually saved. NOESY1D experiment parameters will be set up 
and the proton spectrum will be redisplayed for peak-selection for
NOESY1D.

27. Repeat steps 24-26 to select peak(s) and start NOESY1D acquisition.
    NOESY1D spectra will be acquired (as per your custom choices) and 
    individually saved.

All fids will be saved as PROTON.fid, TOCSY1D_ppm1.fid, TOCSY1D_ppm2.fid,
etc., NOESY1D_ppm3.fid, NOESY1D_ppm4.fid, etc., where ppm1-ppm4 are 
center of the selected band, [HOMODEC experiment will be run as an 
array of decoupling frequency and saved as HOMODEC.fid], under the 
directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date.   If this directory already 
exists, then the fid will be saved under the directory 
vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

