Phosphorus 1D spectrum:

START
 1. Click the Setup button in the Glide user-interface
 2. Eject the sample from the magnet and insert your sample 
    (tune probe, if necessary). Make sure that the proper
    1/4-wave cable is installed.
 3. From the experiment menu select "Phosphorus 1D" option (Hold 
    the right mouse at the menu button next to the experiment list 
    and scroll down to Phosphorus 1D selection).
 4. From the solvent menu select the appropriate solvent.
 5. Select Autoshim and Autolock choice.   (select "No" options 
    if your sample is already locked and shimmed or you would 
    prefer to lock and shim manually).
 6. Enter a filename to save the fid after the experiment is 
    completed (If no filename is given the login name will be 
    used as filename)
 7. Enter appropriate text for your sample.
 8. Click the setup button. (Standard phosphorus  parameters will 
    be recalled and relevant parameters/text will be reset as per 
    your choice in steps 4-7)
    [If you didn't select Autoshim and Autolock in step 5, 
    this would be the time to do manual lock and shim]

CUSTOMIZE 
(You can skip to step 25 if you opt to use the default settings)
 9. At the end of the setup operation, the Custom button will be 
    unmasked and three new buttons appear.
10. Click Acquire button to open Acquisition customization window.
11. Select spectral window for your phosphorus spectrum.
12. Enter Pulse angle (observe pulse) at the input field.
13. Select Recovery delay.
14. Select Number of scans you would like to acquire.
15. Click "Close" button to select your custom options (you may 
    click "Do" if you want to skip customizing processing and 
    plotting options - steps 16-24.   This will start acquisition.)
16. Click Process button to open Process customization window
17. Enter Fourier number and click "Set".  Click "No" to use 
    default Fourier number.
18. Enter Line-boradening factor and click "Set".  Click "No" 
    to turn off line-broadening.
19. Click "Close" button to select your custom process options 
    (Do not click "Process" button)
20. Click Plot button to open Plot customization window
21. Select either displayed or full spectrum for the plot region.
22. From the parameter plotting menu, select how you want your 
    parameter to be plotted.
23. From the peak picking menu, select peak-picking option
24. Click "Close Plot" button to select your custom plot options 
    (Do not click "Do Plot" button)

ACQUIRE
25. If you did not start the acquisition in step 15, click the GO 
    button in the Glide menu to start acquisition.

The phosphorus spectrum will be acquired, processed, plotted and 
saved according to your custom choices.   The fid will be saved 
as PHOSPHORUS.fid under the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date.
If this directory already exists, then the fid will be saved under 
the directory vnmrsys/data/filename-date-time.

