
axis     provide axis labels and scaling factors

Syntax:	 axis(domain) <: $label, $frq_scl, $scl >
         with domain set to 'fn', 'fn1', or 'fn2'

Description: The axis program requires a single argument which defines
             the axis of interest.  The keyword is the name of the
             parameter defining the Fourier number for that dimension.
             The possibilities are 'fn', 'fn1', and 'fn2'.  The program
             uses the current value of axis for that dimension and also
             checks for axis scaling using the corresponding 'scalesw',
             'scalesw1', or 'scalesw2' parameter.  The axis program will
             display or provide to the calling macro the axis label
             (e.g., 'ppm',  'kHz', 'ppm (sc)', etc),  and the divisor
             needed to convert something in units of Hz to the units
             defined by the 'axis' parameter and any scaling.  A second
             scaling factor which is solely determined by the scalesw
             type of parameter can also be returned to a macro.  This last
             scaling factor is independent of the value of the axis parameter.
             For an example of the use of the axis program,  see the rl macro.
             
Examples: axis('fn')                - display axis label and scaling
                                       along 'fn' direction
          axis('fn1'):$lab,$fr,$scl - return axis label and scaling factors
                                       along the 'fn1' direction


axis parameter sets axis label for displays and plots (P)

Specifies the units for the axis display and plot.
For 1D experiments, axis uses a single letter that includes 
'h' for Hz, 'p' for ppm, and 'k' for kHz (e.g., axis='h').
For 2D experiments, axis uses two letters, with the first letter
describing the detected spectral axis (f2), and the second letter
describing the indirectly detected axis (f1). Thus axis='ph' is
appropriate for a homonuclear 2D-J experiment, with a referenced
ppm scale along the spectral axis and an axis in Hz ('h') along the
J-axis. axis='pp' is appropriate for COSY or NOESY experiments.
For 3D experiments, axis uses three letters with the first letter
describing the detected spectral axis (f3), the second letter describing
the first indirectly detected axis (f1), and the third letter specifying the 
second indirectly detected axis (f2).
The special letter d is used to reference the indirectly detected axis to
the parts per million of the decoupler channel, as appropriate for
heteronuclear chemical shift correlation experiments, which would
typically have axis='pd'. The letter n is used to suppress the axis
display on one or both axes (e.g., axis='nn' , axis='pn').
For systems with multiple decouplers, the characters '1' , '2' , and '3'
 can be used to reference an axis relative to the frequency of that decoupler. Setting
axis='p1' is effectively the same as axis='pd'. Values
'1' sets the axis label for units of ppm relative to the first decoupler.
'2' sets the axis label for units of ppm relative to the second decoupler.
'3' sets the axis label for units of ppm relative to the third decoupler.
'c' sets the axis label for units of centimeters.
'd' sets the axis label for units of ppm relative to the first decoupler.
'h' sets the axis label for units of hertz.
'k' sets the axis label for units of kilohertz.
'm' sets the axis label for units of millimeters.
'n' sets no axis label display.
'p' sets the axis label for units of ppm relative to the observe transmitter.
'u' sets the axis label for units of micrometers.

The special value of 'S' allows one to specify the range and label of an axis.
It uses the parameters fn_left, fn_right, and fn_label to define the
directly detected dimension. It uses the parameters fn1_left, fn1_right, and
fn1_label to define the first indirectly detected dimension. The values of fn_left and
fn_right can be positive or negative. It does not matter which is larger.
The macro saxis will create the parameters and add 'S' as a possible enumerated
value for axis.  For example, setting
  fn_left=1 fn_right=fn/2 fn_label='data point #'
will make an axis where the value is the data point index. The label is limited
to 16 characters.
