
bsgHSQCADTOXY: Gradient selected phase-sensitive HSQC followed by MLEV17c spinlock,
               adiabatic version with F1 Band-Selection

See the J1CHTab, Sel2DTab and HSQC entries for general information.

The lower case g denotes this sequence as one which uses PFG gradients to select the
desired coherence. The parameter EDratio (from probe file) tells the sequence how
to scale the encode and decode PFG gradient ratios for the requested nuclei. If no
appropriate EDratio is found on the probe file the parameter is set to the ratio of
the frequencies of the chosen pair of nuclei being detected.

This pulse sequence utilizes fully adiabatic 13C 180s that are designed to
time refocusing to best match the likely 1JCH coupling for a given 13C chemical
shift. Generally speaking 1JCH is smallest at low values for 13C chemical shifts and
increases in value as carbon shift increases. These specially timed adiabatic pulses
improve signal to noise, decrease loss of signal because of minor calibration defects
and generally yield data with fairly good quantification potential. Because of the
special nature of the timed sweep inversion afforded by the adiabatic pulses it is best
to retain the default value of 146 for the paramter j1xh. Cyclo-propyl groups are an
expection that will suffer from phase distortion because the 13C chemical shift is at
very high-field yet the 1JCH coupling is very large.

All adiabatic pulses are created and parameters loaded into the experiment at setup
time using the calibrations found on the probe file.

This is a F1-band-selected experiment. At setup time customize in the Acquire -> Default
panel to define the desired region either interactively with cursors if a HSQC has
been acquired as a part of the study previously or just entry the desired F1 range
into the entry boxes. There is a button to create the shape and subsequent display of
pulse sequence will reflect the true selective pulse parameters.

Note that only correlations within the F1-excitation band will be detected by this
experiment.  In other words, if some members of a spin-system have X chemical shifts
outside of the selected F1 band, they will not be detected.

FEATURES

 - F1 Axial Displacement
 - Randomization of Magnetization prior to relaxation delay with G-90-G 
   [selected by sspul flag]
 - TANGO-Gradient option to suppress C12 protons with PFG [selected by nullflg]
		
PARAMETERS

  sspul  :  y - selects magnetization randomization option
  nullflg:  y - selects TANGO-Gradient option if PFGflg=y
  hsglvl :  Homospoil gradient level (DAC units)
  hsgt	 :  Homospoil gradient time
  gzlvl1 :  Encoding Gradient level
  gt1	 :  Encoding gradient time
  gzlvl3 :  Decoding Gradient level
  gt3	 :  Decoding gradient time
  gstab	 :  Recovery delay
  satmode:  y - selects presaturation option during relax and null delays
  satfrq :  Presaturation frequency
  satdly :  Presaturation delay
  satpwr :  Presaturation power
  mixT	 :  TOCSY (MLEV17) spinlock mixing time
  trim	 :  Trim pulse preceeding spinlock
  slpwr	 :  Spin-lock power level
  slpw	 :  90 deg pulse width for spinlock
  j1xh	 :  One-bond XH coupling constant
  pwxlvl :  X-nucleus pulse power
  pwx	 :  X-nucleus 90 deg pulse width
  d1	 :  Relaxation delay
  d2	 :  Evolution delay

