CSschedule - generate a NUS schedule

The CSschedule command will generate a schedule for non-uniform sampling.
With no arguments, it uses the following parameters.

ni, ni2, and ni3 are used to define the total size of the data matrix.
If they exist, are greater than 1 and not set to "Not used", they will be
used to define the matrix.

CSdensity is the percentage of points in the data matrix that are acquired.
All other points will be treated as zeros. Default is 100.0, that is, use
uniform sampling.

The CSpars parameter will override the default selection of the indirect dimensions.
For example, if the parameter set is a 3D parameter set with both ni and ni2 set, the CSpars
parameter can be set to make just the first or second or both indirect dimensions sparse by
setting CSpars='d2' or CSpars='d3' or CSpars='d2','d3' , respectively. If the CSpars parameter
does not exist or is set to the empty string (CSpars=''), the default behavior with ni, ni2, etc
will be used.

CSseed parameter (integer) containing the seed for the random number
generator used to create the sampling schedules. A positive number indicates
that the sampling schedule is executed sequentially.  A negative number
indicates that the sampling schedule is applied randomly.  Default value
is 169.

It writes the schedule as a text file in the current experiment directory as sampling.sch.

Arguments can be supplied to the CSsampling command to override the defaults.

If an argument starts with 'seed ', then the number in the 'seed ' string will
override the CSseed parameter. This will also set the value of the CSseed parameter.

Any string parameter that does not start with 'seed ' will be used as the filename
of the schedule as it is stored in the current experiment.

The first real number overrides the CSdensity parameter. Its range is 0 < densitiy <= 100.0.
If it falls outside this range, it will be set to 100.0. This will also set the
value of the CSdensity parameter.

Subsequent real numbers define the sizes of the first, second, etc indirect
dimensions. They override the values of ni, ni2, etc. respectively.

Acquisition related parameters.

The sampling parameter is used to select sparse sampling.
sampling='sparse' selects sparse data sampling.
sampling='e' selects ellipitical data sampling, used by imaging applications.
Any other value of sampling selects standard uniform data sampling.

The CStype parameter specifies the type of sampling schedule that will be used by acquisition.
Sampling schedules are of two types. One contains a list of indexes of the increments in
the indirect dimensions. For the first indirect dimension, these indexes would fall between
0 and ni-1.  Each index is multiplied by the dwell time in the indirect dimension (1/sw1).
The second type of schedule is a list of the actual delay times for the indirect dimension.

  CStype='a' to automatically generate an index schedule.

  CStype='i' to use a pre-existing index schedule. 

  CStype='d' to use a pre-existing delay schedule. 

  CStype='p1' to automatically generate a Poisson distribution weighted gap index schedule with sine weighting from 0 to 180 degrees. This weights the sampling schedule so as to have more sampling points in the beginning and at the end of the uniform grid.

  CStype='p2' to automatically generate a Poisson distribution weighted gap index schedule with sine weighting from 0 to 90 degrees. This weights the sampling schedule so as to have more sampling points in the beginning of the uniform grid.

The default is CStype='a'. If CStype='a', the above parameters (CSdensity, CDpars, CSseed) will
be used to generate the sampling schedule.


Examples.

CSschedule
CSschedule('seed 33')
CSschedule('seed 33',10.0, 512, 256)
CSschedule('seed -78')

