csv2cpQ('file'<,options>) -- macro that will import CSV data

The csv2cpQ macro will translate a CSV (Comma Separated Values) file
into actions for VnmrJ. The file name must be supplied as the first
required argument. The file name may be an absolute path name or
relative to userdir/data.

The actions can be submitted to an automation run, to a file for
use in a future automation run, or directly to the foreground VnmrJ.
This selection is controlled by the optional argument 'auto',
'enter', or 'acq', respectively. The default is 'auto'.  Another
optional argument is 'print' or 'noprint'. This controls whether
submission information is printed or not. The default is 'noprint'.

The CSV file used by the csv2cpQ macro is an ASCII text file containing,
as the name implies, text values separated by commas. The first line of
this file defines how the comma separated values in subsequent lines
are to be interpreted. The first line can contain VnmrJ parameter names
or keywords. There are no required fields. Any field that does not
correspond to a VnmrJ parameter name is considered a keyword. Keywords
are looked up in a synonym table to see if they should be re-interpreted
as a VnmrJ parameter or value. This synonym translation file is in an
appdir directory with the name <appdir>/adm/walkupadm/csv2cpQ_synonym.

These CSV files may be generated manually, or they may be exported from
a spread-sheet. Often, the values available to the spread-sheet do not
correspond directly to a VnmrJ parameter. The synonym feature allows
VnmrJ to translate the spread-sheet value to something VnmrJ can use.
For example, the spread-sheet might define a solvent as MeOH. The synonym
table allows csv2cpQ to translate that into 'cd3od'. Any field that
is not a vnmr parameter or keyword will be ignored.

Below is a sample csv file for submitting four samples.


"SAMPLE","DAY","NIGHT","solvent","operator","samplename","notebook","page","Comments"
1,"PROTON",,"CDCl3","John","johnstuff","Johns book","p32","csv2cpQ test location 1"
2,"PROTON gCOSY","gHMBCAD","DMSO","Paul","paulstuff","Pauls book","p42","csv2cpQ test location 2"
3,"PROTON-HSQCAD",,"D2O","George","Georges book","Georges book","p23","csv2cpQ test sample 3"
4,"PROTON gHSQCAD","CARBON","DMSO","Ringo","ringostuff","Ringos book","p38","Ringos Sample 4"
