cyclenoe. Difference NOE experiment

    This does alternate scan subtraction of two fids in which the saturation
frequency is moved on-resonance and off-resonance (for intsub='n'). Separate
data tables are stored for intsub='n'. Power may be reduced from ordinary NOE
experiments since the irradiation can be cycled (cycle='y') through the lines
of a multiplet.  Set up conditions by setting satfrq. Do this by setting dn='H1'
and using "sd" just as in homodecoupling. Then set satfrq=dof and dn='C13'.     
Adjust proper satpwr by setting nt=1 and arraying satpwr from 3 to 0 for UNITY 
and VXR, and 3 to -16 for UNITYplus. Enter proper values for pattern and     
spacing. tau is typically a few hundred milliseconds. Sattime is usually several
seconds. Acquire the data and select the power necessary for 50-75% saturation.
Now set nt to a large number (several hundred).

     The control frequency should be set as near as possible to satfrq to make
the control and satfrq conditions as close as possible. The control frequency
should be "in the noise", not on top of a multiplet. Several protons may be
done simultaneously for one control frequency. Enter the appropriate frequencies
patterns and spacings. Then set array='(satfrq,pattern,spacing)' . This will 
then do the proper number of experiments. Run nonspin and temperature-
regulated. A large number of transients will result in better subtraction.

    pw - 90 degree excitation pulse (at power tpwr)
    intsub - 'y': internal subtraction of data acquired by on-resonance
                  and off-resonance selective excitation on alternate scans
             'n': data acquired by on-resonance and off-resonance selec-
                  tive excitation are stored separately
    satfrq  - frequency of selective saturation (on resonance);
    control - off resonance selective saturation frequency
              (an inactive parameter if intsub = 'n')
    cycle   - cycle='y' does on-resonance saturation using frequency cycling
              around the frequency "satfrq" given by "spacing"and"pattern" 
              cycle='n' does off-resonance saturation at control
    spacing - spacing(in Hz) of multiplet
    pattern - pattern type ( 1 for singlet, 2 for doublet, etc.)    
                fit the desired pattern to some value, even if some frequencies
                do not fall on nmr lines
    tau     - time spent on a single irradiation point during cycling 
    satpwr  - power of selective irradiation (typ values at lowest power)   
    sattime - total length of irradiation at frequency satfrq.
    mix - mixing time
    sspul   - sspul='y' does Trim(x)-Trim(y) before d1
    nt - intsub = 'n':  multiple of 16
         intsub = 'y':  multiple of 32


    NOTE:  This pulse sequence requires that the observe channel be
           equipped with direct synthesis RF and a linear amplifier.

    NOTE: The cyclenoe pulse sequence is not supplied with Mercury 
	  and GEMINI 2000.  See NOEDIF.
