
FHDec: 1H-{19F} and 19F-{1H} decoupling experiments

Default 1H-{19F} and 19F-{1H} decoupling:

Standard protocols have been created for: proton observe, fluorine decoupling
(Hobs_Fdec) and fluorine observe, proton decoupling (Fobs_Hdec).
These can be called by entering the protocol name manually in the VnmrJ command
line.
A standard 1-D proton or fluorine NMR experiment should be run before calling
either protocol. (It is also recommended to reduce the spectral window to the
region of interest before the 1D double resonance or 2D correlation setup.)
The parameters for each protocol are based on the calibration values from the
active probe file.  Each protocol automatically calls the makeFHdecshape macro
that updates the default decoupling parameters.
Default conditions and parameters:
	dn='H1'  if tn='F19',  or dn='F19' if tn='H1'
	dm='nny', dmm='ccp', dres=9.0, dof, dpwr
	dseq='Fdec_W40_8kHz_dutyc.0.4'  or dseq='Hdec_W40_8kHz_dutyc.0.4'
dutyc defaults to 0.4 (if it does not exists).  If dutyc is changed then the
decoupler shape needs to be updated (see later).

The only parameter that needs to be set is dof for 19F decoupling.  For proton
decoupling the default dof=0 is typically sufficient for most applications 
(see General Application Notes below).  The centerband of the decoupler region
can be entered if necessary either in the "Default" or the "Pulse Sequence"
panel in ppm meaning real chemical shifts (setDECoffset macro).
The default shape decouples an 8 kHz wide range (conveniently covering the
whole 1H spectrum) and was created such that even the biggest 19F-1H geminal
couplings (~50 Hz) are covered.  The pulse sequence created for this application
(FHdec) is identical to s2pul except it does not allow decoupler powers of
above 46 dB, providing a margin of instrument safety.
Note: Please note that the 400-MR uses a 50 kHz fixed gating frequency,
therefore the decoupler dwell time is 20 usec. Of these, 4 usec (20%) is used
for built in delays (homorof1, homorof2, homorof3) where neither the decoupler
nor the receiver is on.  The duty cycle is defined as the percentage of the
time the decoupler is on. Therefore the relevant receiver duty cycle (that
determines S/N) is 100-20-dutyc.  Using the default parameters, the sensitivity
of these decoupled experiments is ca. 60% that of the non-decoupled experiment.

Advanced 1H-{19F} and 19F-{1H} decoupling:

In case a wider 19F frequency range is to be decoupled in the absence of 
geminal F-H couplings, or the user wants to change duty cycle (to either gain
sensitivity or lower decoupler power) the decoupler shape needs to be
recreated.  This can be done via the "Pulse Sequence" panel of the sequences
using the makeFHdecshape macro which has 3 arguments, 
	makeFHdecshape(bandwidth,maxjhf,dutyc), where:
		bandwidth is the frequency range to be decoupled in Hz
		maxjfh is the largest coupling constant to be decoupled
		dutyc is the decoupler duty cycle. 
The decoupler parameters are automatically updated. The macro aborts if the
requested dpwr is above 46 dB.

CALIBRATION

Autocalibration for 1H-{19F} and 19F-{1H} double resonance, as well as for F-H
correlation experiments are completed via the standard calibration panel using
the 1H and 19F sensitivity samples, respectively. At the end of the calibration
process the pwx, pwxlvl and pwxlvl_cf parameters will be added and updated to
the currently active probe file.  (The macros involved are: AC12H, AC12F and
AC12p.) In addition, the default decoupling shape is automatically created via
the makeFHdecshape macro. 
Note: If channel 2 calibration has been done before the target pw90 is pwx from
the probe file. If pwx does not exists (or zero) then the target value is the
relevant pw90, if no calibration at all was done on the probe then the target
values default to the probe specifications (14 us for 1H and 18 us for 19F). 
Autocalibration is either completed during system installation or during the
software upgrade process, or as necessary as part of standard system maintenance,
please refer to the NMR Spectroscopy, User Guide Pub. No. 01-999343-00, or 
later, section 3.11 "Calibrating the Probe). The decoupler calibration
procedure above does not replace or substitute the ordinary 1H and 19F observe
calibration (items 1 and 3 in the Probe Calibration window). Those need
to be completed before the channel-2 calibration is activated. 
