 Hadamard 2D experiments. 

To set up a homonuclear Hadamard 2D experiment, e.g. tocsyHT:

  1) record a 1d H1 spectrum, ft and phase correct; 
  2) Select Setup Hadamard Encoding from Hadamard Experiments menu. Choose lb=20
     to 25 Hz and set threshold as required; 
     For the 2-ethyl-indanone sample and samples with large geminal H-H couplings
     use lb=25 Hz. 
  3) Click the "Create Line List" button and edit the created line list if 
     necessary.
  4) Select the required experiment from the Hadamard Experiments -> 
     Use Current Parameters menu.
  5) adjust any paramaters, if necessary, e.g. pw, ni, sw1, etc.;
  5) use the Sequence button to ensure the setup is correct and then Acquire 
     to start the experiment;
  6) process with wft2da (proc1 = 'ht')or use the Process menus.

To set up a heteronuclear Hadamard 2D experiment, e.g. hsqcHT:

  1) Record a 1d C-13 spectrum, ft and phase correct; 
  2) Select Setup Hadamard Encoding from Hadamard Experiments menu. 
  3) Set threshold and click the "Create Line List" button. 
     Edit the created line list if necessary.
  4) In another experiment record a 1d H-1 spectrum, FT and phase correct. 
  5) Select the required experiment from the Hadamard Experiments -> 
     Use Current Parameters menu.
  6) Import the Hadamard frequency list from the previous experiment. 
     Adjust any paramaters, if necessary, e.g. pw, ni, sw1, etc.;
  7) Use the Sequence button to ensure the setup is correct and then 
     Acquire to start the experiment;
  8) process with wft2da (proc1 = 'ht') or use the Process menus.

  For more information see manual pages for individual experiments.
  See also man pages for:  ht editht ft2d ft2da

To set up autoHT experiments:

  1) Create a working directory;
  2) Record 1D H-1 and C-13 experiments and save in the working directory as 
     H1.fid and C-13.fid; 
  3) Optional CH.fid file contains only the CH region (e.g. INEPT or DEPT); 
  4) Create H1.ll, C13.ll and optional CH.ll and H1noe.ll Hadamard line lists
     and save in the working directory; All frequency lists in autoHT series
     are optional and ensure more reliable results.
  5) From the Hadamard Experiments menu choose autoHT;
  6) In autoHT page select the required experiments, set the working directory 
     H1 pulse length and click "Begin".

   

