The (HC)HetToxys Tab Family

Information Conyeyed - Proton couplings at carbon chemical shift.

This family of experiments originated in a publication by Laura Lerner and Ad Bax
(HMQCTOCSY) as a method to help solve the problem of assigning 1H data which is severely
overlapped as is the case for carbohydrates. This family of experiments can be thought of
as second-tier experiments because the need to use it only becomes apparent after some
analysis has been done using faster techniques such as gCOSY or TOCSY plus HSQCAD. The
HetToxy family provides two pieces of information; first, typically a correlation
is generated that is the same as in HSQC; "This proton is attached to that carbon".
In addition a series of correlations are generated that are redundant in both F2, the
proton dimenson, and in F1, the carbon dimension. The information conveyed is "The proton
at this chemical shift is coupled to a proton whose carbon is at that chemical shift".

Two of the experiments in this tab, HSQCADTOXY & gHSQCADTOXY, are adiabatic and have
the best sensitivity. These differ only in that the gHSQCADTOXY utilizes PFG gradient
selection. This trades a factor of 1.41 in raw sensitivity for improved suppression
of artifacts.  All of the rest of the experiments in the HetToxy family provide a
pulse sequence option to invert or suppress only the responses directly attributed to
the H-C pair (HSQC peaks). This is done by setting a parameter called mult = 2 or 1
to yield a final 13C pulse of 180 or 90 degrees respectively.

Using the multiplicity-editing option has a small cost in sensitivity. There is
a secondary advantage afforded by using the option for suppression of the direct
H-C correlation responses for cases of severe overlap in the 1H dimension; The 13C
decoupling can be turned off (dm='nnn') in which case the residual direct responses
are shifted to their true positions as the 13C satellites. Because 13C decoupling is
not on the 1H acquisition time (at) can be safely increased to any desired value. Thus
is becomes possible to observe vicinal 1H-1H coupling coonnectivity between very close
proton resonances provided the chemical shifts of their associated carbons differ.

The HetToxy family of experiments are very powerful for helping solve structural
problems with many classes of chemical substances wherever resolution suffers in the
proton spectrum. In compounds like peptides it is often useful to record HSQCTOXY
for both H-C and H-N. Provided the 15N chemical shifts of each amide are resolved it
is possible effectively separate the complete 1H NMR spectrum for each amino acid in
the F1 (15N) dimension. Moving to the H-C HSQCTOXY from there it becomes possible to
verify all assignments for the carbons are well.


