The (HH)Homo2D Tab Family

This tab contains experiments that by default each acquire 2-dimensional data to
correlation protons to protons through either J-coupling or through space. These
experiments can be thought of as "first tier" experiments because of the fundamental
nature of the conveyed homo-nuclear connectivity information.

There are four experiments that show connectivity via vicinal typically 3JHH.
These experiments are gCOSY, COSY, gDQCOSY, and DQCOSY. The fastest experiments would
be gCOSY and gDQCOSY with gCOSY being the most common choice. The gDQCOSY experiment
will give more detail but requires high digital resolution to be used to advantage.

Note that both gCOSY and COSY have a option to set the 2nd pulse to something other
than a 90 degree pulse. The COSY/gCOSY with a 45 degree observe pulse allows the facile
determination of geminal versus vicinal couplings.

There are two experiments that are complimentary to the COSY family: TOCSY and
zTOCSY. Tocsy stands for Total Correlation Spectroscopy and a TOCSY tends to show
correlation between entire spin systems rather than only vicinal couplings. The zTOCSY
experiment utilizes more advanced PFG methods to suppress zero-quantum artifacts.

There are three experiments to convey through-space connectivity:  NOESY, ROESY, and
ROESYAD. The choice between NOESY and ROESY depends upon the size of the molecule you
are studying as compared to the observe frequency of the NMR spectrometer. NOE tends to
approach zero when the molecules tumbling time in solution equals the observe frequency.

The HOMO2DJ experiment acquires 2D data where F2 is the 1H chemical shift and F1 shows
the couplings.  Thus, each 1H multiple has been rotated on it's chemical shift.

The experiments in the (HH)Homo2D tab family consist of a couple of absolute value
experiments (gCOSY and COSY) which should be processed in av mode with shifted sinebell
window functions in both dimensions. All of the rest are phase-sensitive experiments
and the choice of a gaussian function in both dimensions is a good one.  An exception
are the two experiments gDQCOSY and DQCOSY both of which evolve as echoes and use by
default the pi3ssbsq window function. There are convenient buttons in the Process =>
Weighting panel to make it easy to reset window functions to appropriate values if F1
linear prediction parameters (in More 2D panel) are reset.
