The (H)Sel1D Tab Family

Information conveyed - A 1D slice out of a 2D experiment

The advent of the homonuclear Hadamard Family of experiments has the potential to compete
with this family of experiments in terms of time required to solve a problem. However,
in many cases stereochemical assignments can be completed by as few as 2 or 3 selective
nOe or rOe experiments with NOESY1D or ROESY1D. Similarly, the need to quickly determine
a single spin system can be achieved with great efficiency with TOCSY1D or zTOCSY1D.

The setup of the experiments in this family proceeds differently depending upon the
state of the study at the time the experiment is selected. The most direct method is to
first obtain a PROTON spectrum and autosave to establish the sample directory. After that
the sudy can be continued or edited to add the Sel1D experiment. When this is done the
last PROTON acquired for the study sample is retrieved and the operator simply chooses
the desire sites for selection with a pair of cursors. In automation this customization
step is opened automatically.  Once defined, the parameters are saved by the green Save
button under the graphics window and resubmitted back to the appropriate sample location.

If a Sel1D experiment is chosen as the first experiment in a study the operator has two
options. If the positions for the desired selections are known choose that option and
just enter the values. Up to 5 are allowed. Otherwise choose to select later and submit
in which case the PROTON will be acquired and you can customize that as described in
the above paragraph.

The (H)Sel1D Tab contains one very specialized experiment called stepNOESY1D. In this
experiment a TOCSY1D is acquired in the first part of the pulse sequence at which point
a 2nd selective excitation is done off one of the TOCSY relay peaks for a selective
NOESY1D from that spin. This experiment has low sensitivity but can be thought of as
a 1 dimensional alternative to a 3 dimensional experiment.

The (H)Sel1D tab contains one more experiment that is actually the building block
for all of the others - the selexcit experiment.  This pulse sequence allows the
acquisition of a simple region-selected 1H data where either only one or a group of
selected regions are included.
