The J1(CH)corr Tab Family

This tab contains experiments that by default each acquire 2-dimensional data to
correlation protons to directly attached carbons. These experiments can be thought
of as "first tier" experiments because of the fundamental nature of the conveyed
information. These experiments are all in a sense bookkeeping experiments: "this proton
is attached to that carbon".

There are different options for most experiments and the HSQCAD will typically be the
best default choice for good sensitivity for most compounds. The entire "HSQC" family:
HSQCAD, gHSQCAD, HSQC, and gHSQC, provide the best resolution in the 1H (detected)
dimension because 1H multiplet structure is simplified. In addition, each of the
HSQC-family experiments supports an option for multiplicity editing to yield 2D data
where the phase of the correlations is dependent upon the number of protons that are
directly attached to the carbons. Thus, CH and CH3 correlations are typically "up"
with CH2 correlations "down".

There are three "HMQC" experiments: HMQC, gHMQC, and a fast method called ASAPHMQC. Of
these three perhaps the most routinely useful given the HSQC-family would be ASAPHMQC
because it can provide a complete and moderately well digitized 1H/13C 2D direct
correlation is about 1 minute.

There are two 13C-detected experiments provided, HETCOR and gHETCOR.  Both support
multiplicity editing as does the HSQC-family. Being 13C-detected affords the advantage
of routinely high 13C resolution at the cost of a large drop in sensitivity compared
to the 1H detected experiments from both the HSQC and HMQC-families.

Other than HETCOR and gHETCOR, all other experiments in this tab inherit solvent
suppression details automatically if setup follows either a PRESAT or wet1D dataset.

The fact that the defaults are for 1H/13C correlation does not mean that data with
other nuclei cannot be done; It just means the default nuclei are 1H and 13C and that
the operator must choose if something else is desired. All that is required to do
other nuclei choices is a probe file with a tab containing proper calibrations for
the desired spins. At the time the choice is made the setup mechanisms properly set
all parameters such as pulse widths, the associated powers, decoupling parameters and
if needed gradient selection ratios.

When processing if F1 linear prediction parameters are changed in the Process => More
2D panel the operator must reset the gaussian window function. This can be either in the
menu on the More 2D panel or in the Weighting panel. Both dimensions of all experiments
in this tab are phased so the choice of a gaussian window function is a good one.
