The Jn(CH)corr Tab

This experiment selector tab contains a family of experiments to acquire 2D experiments
which show long-range couplings between two nuclei.  By default this tab sets parameters
for 1H/13C experiments. Other nuclei can be selected by the operator at setup time
if desired.

gHMBCAD - Adiabatic gradient HMBC. Best default choice; especially for 1H/13C.

gHMBC - Similar to gHMBCAD but uses differ 13C pulses. gHMBCAD is a better choice.

gH2BCAD - Adiabatic 2-bond H/C correlations.

gH2BC - Non-adiabatic 2-bond H/C correlations.

CIGAR - Non adiabatic CIGAR - attempts to widen effectiveness of choice for JnCH.

CIGARAD - Adiabatic CIGAR - perhaps the best default choice for 1H/15N long-range
correlations. Set the parameter jscaleU = 1 - Uniform Scaling entry of Pulse Sequence
panel to convert adiabatic CIGAR to adiabatic IMPEACH for 15N.

HMBC - Phase cycled classic HMBC experiment.  Best sensitivity at the cost of T1
noise. Rarely used though it is important to understand that the T1 noise is often
only cosmetic and may not affect a complete analysis.  Because the pulse sequence is
phase cycled it takes a good bit more time to acquire a dataset than an experiment
like gHMBCAD.

gHMBCmeAD - Multiplicity - edited gHMBC. Can be processed using panels to show
connectivities as a function of the number of attached protons.

Many of these experiments are acquired so that a mixed-mode of 2D processing is
employed. What this means here is that F2 is absolute value and F1 is phased. This
afforded advantages with both resolution and sensitivity.  To understand any individual
experiment in this regard just setup the experiment and look at the Process -> Weighting
tab. If you see a shifted sinebell in F2 and a gaussion function in F1 this means the
experiment is "mixed mode". This is important to keep in mind when processing data
because if the default processing is modified such as the use or amount of linear
prediction in F1 the F1 window function must be reset.  Do this after changing the
linear prediction parameters in the Weighting panel for only F1 (reselect gaussian
typically). Choosing gaussian from the MOre 2D panel (where the linear prediction
parameters are set) by toggling gaussian again will set both F2 and F1 to use gaussian
window functions and it is a good idea to keep F2 as a shifted sinebell because of
the nature of absolute value data.
