
PRESAT: Standard two-pulse sequence with presaturation option to suppress strong signals.

Look at the Acquire -> Default panel for PRESAT under different setup conditions because
the tools that are available adjust dynamically depending upon the exact conditions.

If PRESAT is selected as part of an automation queue (New Study - choose PRESAT)
customization is forced because the apptype for PRESAT is lstd1D. Customization is
mandatory of course because the question of what needs to be selected for presaturaton
needs to be answered.  For the situation where there is no PROTON yet acquired for
the sample in the study there are three choices available in a menu to choose HOD
in D2O, wet DMSOd6, or 90% H2O. In addition there is a check labled "Do Scout" which
typically would be selected by default because this instructs the PRESAT prescans to
first acquire a 1 scan PROTON spectrum and automatically determine exact parameters
to best meet the criteria chosen by the operator.

The choice of what to presaturate determines the power of the RF field used for the
experiment. For the choice of 90% H2O a 50 Hz B1 field is set. Less power is used for
other choices. Also, for the choice of 90% H2O the PRESAT prescans will set both the
presaturation frequency and the offset for the acquisition to the same offset because
this is the best experimental proceedure for good NMR in H2O solution.

It is a very good idea to add a field in the H1 section of the probe file labelled
H1tofh2o and enter there the value for the typical tof for H2O in your system. This
provides an excellent starting point for the scout NMR experiment to optimize the
water presaturation offset and in many cases can just be used without the scout option.

There is another check box option to choose how many peaks to suppress. If the number
3 were entered and this box were checked the PRESAT prescans would automatically locate
the 3 tallest peaks in the PROTON spectrum and create a shaped presat pulse to suppress
all three.

If PRESAT is selected and a PROTON has already been acquired the operator is presented
with a different means of choosing the desired presaturation frequencies. The PROTON
spectrum is retrieved and shown to the operator where they select either Single-frequency
PRESAT or multiple frequency PRESAT. The actual selection of frequencies is done by
locating a pair of cursors around the peaks for suppression and clicking the Select
button. For the case of multiple frequencies the operator repeats the selection process
as desired. The cursor separation determines the power used in the subsequent experiment.

In all cases for automation use of PRESAT once the choices are made the green Save
button below the graphics window should be clicked to commit the changes prior to
choosing Submit in the Study Queue pane.

Use of PRESAT outside of Automation proceeds exactly as it has been described for in
automation except the green Acquire button below the graphics window is used to begin
the experiment.  In all cases it is a good idea to choose the autogain check option
because acquiring data with a fixed receiver gain can be problematic if large residual
peaks remain in the spectrum.

PRESAT also supports the option for a 2 or 4-step purge which can improve suppression and
reduce the amount of RF power needed for suppression. For all experiments available in
the menu system the definition of presaturation parameters as determined by the manual
or automation setup processes will be inherited by subsequent 2D experiments! This
means that it is routine to work in water solution for complex structural problems
completely automatically.

See the wet1D manual pages for an alternative experimental approach for solvent
suppression.


Parameters:

satmode : y - selects presaturation option

satfrq	: presaturation frequency

satdly	: presaturation delay

satpwr	: presaturation power

prgflg	: flag to select purge option

pw	: Observe pulse width

p1	: First pulse width

d1	: relaxation delay

