Quantification Calibration Help File

You need a sample of known concentration to do this calibration!

Acquire a spectrum with fixed gain and good parameters
for quantification.  One scan with gain=30 and a 90 degree
tip can be a good choice.

Integrate a single peak you wish to use for the calibration. 
Note how many protons are associated with the peak.
For example is it a CH3, CH2, or CH?

Enter the concentration in the entry box labeled "Concentration
of sample (mmol)". For the "Number of nuclei in integral region",
enter the number of protons. For example, if you are integrating
a CH3 group, enter or select 3.

Finally, be sure the single vertical cursor is inside the integral
reqion. You can use the First, Last, Previous, or Next buttons
to position or cursor, or you can do it manually.

Then click the big green button labeled "Save Probe Calibration". 
First, this defines the integral scaling factors for the 
selected integral to be displayed in actual concentration. 
This action is the same as clicking the Set Integral Value 
button on the Integration panel in the Process tab or typing 
ds_setint from the command line.  It then commits the calibrations
and signal to noise values to the probe file. Once the probe file has
these values any samples concentration can be displayed using the 
Determine Concentration tool in the Integration panel. In addition,
If Adaptive NMR is enabled in Edit=>Preferences=>UserPrefs experiments
with have an appropriate number of transients automatically set
provided the concentration parameter has been set. The Determine
Concentration tool has a button called Save Result to facilitate
this step. 

Typical values for both 1H and 13C Signal2Noise
are set onto the probefile for 400, 500, or 600 MHz consoles
for use with the predicative setting of parameters for
advanced experiments feature afforded by the AgileNT macro.
If you edit the probe file with your actual result base the 
entries on a normal (not thin wall) NMR tube. If you only
use thin wall calibration standards just multiply your SN
value by 0.87 for the probe file value.

If your console has a cold probe or has a 1H frequency greater
than 600 MHz you should manually enter the nominal values for
1H Signal2Noise and 13C Signal2Noise in the appropriate tabs
on the probefile after first selecting any of the menu choices
and clicking "Save Probe Calibration". 
