ROESYAD - adiabatic ROESY experiment with water suppression by gradient echo
		
Literature reference:
        T.L. Hwang and A.J. Shaka; JMR A112, 275-279 (1995) Excitation Sculpting
        C. Dalvit; J. Biol. NMR, 11, 437-444 (1998) Excitation Sculpting
        M.J. Trippleton and J. Keeler;

Parameters:
        sspul       - flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady-state sequence
        mixR        - ROESY mixing time
        zfilt       - flag for Z-filter gradients during mixing
        gzlvlz      - gradient amplitude for the Z filter
        gtz         - gradient duration for the Z filter
        flipback    - flag for an optional selective 90 flipback pulse
                                on the solvent to keep it along z all time
        flipshape   - shape of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippw      - pulse width of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwr     - power level of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwrf    - fine power for flipshape by default it is 2048
                        may need optimization with fixed flippw and flippwr
        phincr1     - small angle phase shift between the hard and the
                            selective pulse for flipback='y' (1 deg. steps)
                            to be optimized for best result
        esshape     - shape file of the 180 deg. selective refocussing pulse
                        on the solvent (may be convoluted for multiple solvents)
        essoftpw    - pulse width for esshape (as given by Pbox)
        essoftpwr   - power level for esshape (as given by Pbox)        
        essoftpwrf  - fine power for esshape by default it is 2048
                        needs optimization for multiple solvent suppression only
                                with fixed esoftpw 
        esgzlvl     - gradient power for the solvent suppression echo
        esgt        - gradient duration for the solvent suppression echo
        alt_grd     - alternate gradient sign(s) in dpfgse on even transients
        lkgate_flg  - lock gating option (on during d1 off during the seq. and at)

KrishK - Aug. 2006
PeterS - Excitation Sculpting added 2012

