The Sel2D Tab Family

Information Conveyed - The general theme for the experiments in the Sel2D tab is to
setup parameters for F1 band-selected 2D experiments.

Band-selection in the F1 dimension saves time and improves resolution in any 2D
experiment by reducing the number of increments needed in that dimension. There are
experiments in the tab where F1 is homonuclear bsROESY, bsTOCSY, and bsNOESY. All of
these experiments can either be setup from a PROTON spectrum, a selexcit experiment
(selective 1D) or by simple entry of the desired F1 region in the setup panels.  All
needed selective pulses are create automatically and parameters are set appropriately.
These homonuclear experiments all support the option for broadband homonuclear decoupling
in the F1 dimension thereby further improving resolution.

There are also a series of experiments that default to be H-C heteronuclear with 13C
being the F1 band-selected dimension.  At setup time for the case where a traditional
2D of the same type (HSQC or HMBC) choice of the corresponding Sel2D experiment will
retrieve the first 2D and allow the operator to select the frequency with cursors
from the 2D. Alternatively the desired F1 window can be chosen by entering the desired
region as parameter entries. All required shapes are created automatically in automation.


There are two experiments of great utility that only appear in the Sel2D tab;
(HC)bsHSQCNOESY and (HC)bsHSQCROESY. Because the F1 window can be what is desired
including a full wide F1 region the unique power of HSQCNOESY/ROESY is available for
any situation. The information conveyed is similar to the HetToxy family of experiments;
"This proton has nOe to a proton whose carbon is at that chemical shift".

The (HC)EXSIDE experiment is very special and provides a method to measure long-range
H/C coupling constants. To setup first acquire a gCOSY and take note of which protons
are coupled to one another. Next acquire a selexcit experiment where the multi-band
option is selected and chose all desired protons being careful to not include any pairs
from the same spin system. Setup EXSIDE from there. The coupling constants will be in
phase pairs in the F1 dimension scaled by a jscaling parameter. If the jscale factor
were 10 the true coupling constant would be the F1 separation/10.
