STD_ES  1D STD Saturation Transfer Difference experiment with
	DPFGSE sculpted solvent suppression 
	Reference (STD): Mayer and Meyer J.A.Ch.Soc.2001,123,6108-6117
                  DPFGSE: T.L. Hwang and A.J. Shaka; JMR A112, 275-279 (1995)
                          C. Dalvit; J. Biol. NMR, 11, 437-444 (1998)
	
	Paramters:
        sspul       - flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady-state sequence
	ES_flg      - y - does post sequence water suppr. via excitation
		      sculpting
        prg_flg     - flag for an optional purge pulse at the end of the sequence
                                set prg_flg='y' to suppress protein background
        prgtime     - pulse width of the purge pulse for prg_flg='y' (in seconds!!)     
        prgpwr      - power level for the purge pulse for prg_flg='y'
	d1	    - relaxation delay
        xferdly     - saturation transfer delay ( ~1.5-2sec)
        xfershape   - shape of the pulses in the pulse-train (def:gauss)
        xferint     - interpulse delay in the xfer pulsetrain
                      (1 ms is recommended in the literature with no obvious reason)
        xferpwr     - power level for the saturation pulse-train
                      (in the literature 86 Hz peak power is recommended
                      corresponding to a 630 deg. flip angle at 50 msec satpw
                      please note that the actual flip angle is irrelevant,
                      the selectivity is controlled by the power level, satpwr)
        xferpw      - pulse width of the shaped pulses in the pulse train
                      duration ca 50 ms
	xferfrq     - frequency for protein saturation
                      (use a region with an intense protein signal
                      and NO ligand signal) 
        xferfrqref  - reference frequency (outside the signal region ~at 30ppm)
        esshape     - shape file of the 180 deg. selective refocussing pulse
                        on the solvent (may be convoluted for multiple solvents)
        essoftpw    - pulse width for esshape (as given by Pbox)
        essoftpwr   - power level for esshape (as given by Pbox)        
        essoftpwrf  - fine power for esshape by default it is 2048
                        needs optimization for multiple solvent suppression only
                                with fixed essoftpw
        esgzlvl     - gradient power for the solvent suppression echo
        esgt        - gradient duration for the solvent suppression echo
	gstab       - recovery delay
        alt_grd     - flag to alternate gradient signs after each subsequent nt
        lkgate_flg  - lock gating option (on during d1 off during the seq. and at)
        add_data    - 'internal' - coadd ALL scans producing difference 
                                       spectrum at the end
                      'external' - array "on_res" and store on-resonance and control
                                       FIDs separately; needs manual subtraction after
                                       acquisition. For best results set blocksize 
                                       (bs) to 1 and use interleave (il='y')
                                       Do not use this interleave option on INOVAs
        on_res     - flag to run on/off-resonance array ('y','n')

	Igor Goljer June 9 2003
        Peter Sandor Nov. 2003
        Bert Heise Feb. 2012 [Chempack/VJ3.x version]
