
TOCSY: Total correlation spectroscopy with mixing in XY-plane
 
REFERENCES

  Original TOCSY sequence:
        A. Bax and D.G. Davis, J. Magn. Reson. 65, 355 (1985)
        M. Levitt, R. Freeman and T. Frenkiel, J. Magn. Reson. 47, 328 (1982)
  Windowed CLEAN MLEV17 spinlock:
        C. Griesinger, G. Otting and K. Wuethrich, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 110, 7870 (1988)

FEATURES

 - States-TPPI in F1
 - z-filter pulse with flipback option
 
PARAMETERS

  sspul   : flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady state block
  hsglvl  : gradient power level for sspul
  hsgt    : gradient duration for sspul
  satmode : flag for optional presaturation
  satdly  : presaturation delay
  satpwr  : presaturation power level
  tpwr_cf : 1H amplifier compression factor
  satfrq  : presaturation frequency
  mix     : duration of the TOCSY mixing along Z
                  (the pulse width and the corresponding power level
                  are internally calculated from strength and tpwr_cf)
  slpw    : spin-lock pulse width
  slpwr   : spin-lock power level
  spinlock: amplitude of the B1 mixing field (Hz)
  clean   : use windowed pulse train (CLEAN-TOCSY) to remove ROESY
                  peaks from spectrum
  window  : window width of the CLEAN-TOCSY pulse train relative to
                  slpw, typical value = 2.5 (x slpw)
  zfilt   : optional z-filter, can be used with xy-TOCSY only
  ztocsy  : do TOCSY mixing along z (DIPSI2) or in x-y plane (MLEV17)
  gt1     : homospoil gradient duration after mixing
  gzlvl1  : homospoil gradient level after mixing
  gstab   : gradient stabilization delay
  zqflg   : optional flag for ZQ suppression
                  The shaped pulses and gradient powers are calculated on-the-fly
  alt_grd : alternate gradient sign(s) in ZQ-filter on even transients
                                                                                                              
The parameters: gcal_local, coil_size and h1freq_local, necessary
for ZQ suppression, are taken from the probe file by the setup macro or
are calculated automatically.
The parameter swfactor controlling the width of the frequency range to be
refocused for the ZQ filter is defaulted to 9.0 in the pulse sequence (as
recommended by the literature reference).
On the other hand, for very wide spectral windows the inversion range is
limited to 60 kHz to prevent dangerously high gradient levels to be set.

