
unit - define conversion units

The unit command will define a linear relationship which can be used
to enter parameters with units.  The unit is applied as a suffix to the
numerical value.  The definition of the linear relations follows the
traditional y = mx + b equation, where x is the input value and y
is the converted result.  The unit command has the generic structure
unit(suffix,label,m,b) where suffix is the identifying name for the unit,
label is a name which will be displayed when the axis parameter is set
to the value of the suffix (if the suffix is only a single character),
m is the slope of the linear relationship and b is the intercept.
The suffix and label are limited to twelve characters in length.
Both m and b may be defined in two ways: either as a numerical value
or as the name of a parameter.  If a parameter name is used, it may
be optionally followed with the parameter tree to use (i.e.,  current,
processed, global, or systemglobal). If a parameter name is used for
the slope, another optional keyword may be supplied which specifies
whether the parameter value should be a multiplier (keyword 'mult')
or a divisor (keyword 'div'). If a parameter name is used for the
intercept, another optional keyword may be supplied which specifies
whether the parameter value should be added (keyword 'add') or
subtracted (keyword 'sub').  The default parameter tree is 'current'.
The default slope keyword is 'mult' and the default intercept keyword
is 'add'.  To remove a unit, define the unit with a 0 for the slope.
Entering the unit command with no arguments displays all currently
defined units.

A convenient place to put unit commands for all users is in the
bootup macro.  Put private unit commands in your login macro.
Some examples of unit commands include:

unit('k','kHz',1000)               r1=10k will set r1 to 10000
unit('p','ppm','sfrq','processed') r1=10p will set r1 to 10*sfrq where sfrq
                                   is taken from the processed tree
unit('p','',0)                     r1=10p will set r1 to 10 and give
                                   an error 'unknown unit p'
unit('F','degF',5/9,-32*5/9)       r1=212F will set r1 to 100 (degrees C)
unit('C','degC',9/5,32)            r1=100C will set r1 to 212 (degrees F)
