
wet1D: Standard two-pulse sequence with presaturation option to suppress strong signals.

Look at the Acquire -> Default panel for wet1D under different setup conditions because
the tools that are available adjust dynamically depending upon the exact conditions.

If wet1D is selected as part of an automation queue (New Study - choose wet1D)
customization is forced because the apptype for wet1D is lstd1D. The wet1D experiment
is an ideal method to suppress multiple solvents and to also better retain exchangable
protons than PRESAT. Customization is mandatory of course because the question of
what needs to be selected for presaturaton needs to be answered.  For the situation
where there is no PROTON yet acquired for the sample in the study there are many
choices available in a menu to choose common multiple solvent suppression needs. In
addition there is a check labled "Do Scout" which typically would be selected by
default because this instructs the wet1D prescans to first acquire a 1 scan PROTON
spectrum and automatically determine exact parameters to best meet the criteria chosen
by the operator.  The operator can choose to select the desired peaks for suppression
now via either the menu or or just suppress the N tallest peaks.  Alternatively the
operator can choose to define the peaks for suppression later in which case the scout
1D is acquired and the operator interactively chooses.

For the choice of 90% H2O the wet1D prescans will set both the presaturation frequency
and the offset for the acquisition to the same offset as the water because this is
the best experimental proceedure for good NMR in H2O solution.

If wet1D is selected and a PROTON has already been acquired the operator manually
selects peaks for suppression. The PROTON spectrum is retrieved and shown to the operator
where they select the peaks by surrounding the peak by a pair of cursors and clicking
select For the case of multiple frequencies the operator repeats the selection process
as desired. The cursor separation determines the power used in the subsequent experiment.

In all cases for automation use of wet1D once the choices are made the green Save
button below the graphics window should be clicked to commit the changes prior to
choosing Submit in the Study Queue pane.

Use of wet1D outside of Automation proceeds exactly as it has been described for in
automation except the green Acquire button below the graphics window is used to begin
the experiment.  In all cases it is a good idea to choose the autogain check option
because acquiring data with a fixed receiver gain can be problematic if large residual
peaks remain in the spectrum.

wet1D also supports options to decouple 13C during the time of the selective wet pulses
to also suppress the 13C satellites for solvents with carbons. In the Acquire=>WET
panel page there are options to optimize the amplifier compression factor used to
create the wet pulse shape and to select the use of a composite 90 degree detection
pulse. There is also a button to manually create the wet shape on demand based upon
the peak selections defined on the Default page.

For all experiments available in the menu system the definition of WET presaturation
parameters as determined by the manual or automation setup processes will be inherited
by subsequent 2D experiments! This means that it is routine to work in water solution
for complex structural problems completely automatically.

See the PRESAT manual pages for an alternative experimental approach for solvent
suppression.

