wLOGSY_ES - 1D-NOE ePHOGSY experiment for detection
                   of ligands with WaterLOGSY

Literature:  C. Dalvit et al. J. Biomol. NMR, 18, 65-68 (2000).
             C. Dalvit, G. Fogliatto, A. Stewart, M. Veronesi & B. Stockman:
			      J. Biomol. NMR 21, 349-359 (2001).

Parameters:
        sspul           - flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady-state sequence
        flipback    - flag for an optional selective 90 flipback pulse
                                on the solvent to keep it along z all time
        flipshape   - shape of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippw      - pulse width of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwr     - power level of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwrf    - fine power for flipshape by default it is 2048
                        may need optimization with fixed flippw and flippwr
        phincr1     - small angle phase shift between the hard and the
                            selective pulse for flipback='y' (1 deg. steps)
                            to be optimized for best result
        esshape     - shape file of the 180 deg. selective refocussing pulse
                        on the solvent (may be convoluted for multiple solvents)
        essoftpw    - pulse width for esshape (as given by Pbox)
        essoftpwr   - power level for esshape (as given by Pbox)        
        essoftpwrf  - fine power for esshape by default it is 2048
                        needs optimization for multiple solvent suppression only
                                with fixed essoftpw
        esgzlvl     - gradient power for the solvent suppression echo
        hsgt        - gradient duration for sspul
        hsglvl      - gradient power for sspul
        mixN        - mixing time
        gzlvlhs     - gradient power for the HS pulse during mix (< 1G/cm)
        wselshape   - shape file of the 180 deg. H2O selection pulse       
        wselpw      - pulse width for wselshape (as given by Pbox)
        wselpwr     - power level for wselshape (as given by Pbox)
        gt1         - gradient duration for the solvent selection echo
        gzlvl1      - gradient power for the solvent selection echo
        alt_grd     - alternate gradient sign(s) on even transients
        gstab       - gradient stabilization delay
        prg_flg     - flag for an optional purge pulse at the end of the sequence
                                set prg_flg='y' tu suppress protein background
        prgtime     - duration of the purge pulse for prg_flg='y' (in seconds!!)     
        prgpwr      - power level for the purge pulse for prg_flg='y'
        lkgate_flg  - lock gating option (on during d1 off during the seq. and at)
        tof         - transmitter offset (set on resonance for H2O)

The water refocusing, selection and water flipback shape can be created/updated
using the "make_es_shape", "make_wselshape" and "make_es_flipshape" macros,
respectively. For multiple frequency solvent suppression the esshape file needs
to be created manually.

p. sandor, darmstadt june 2003
b. heise, oxford may 2012 (Chempack/VJ3 version)
