 Dbppste_cc - Bipolar gradient pulses stimulated echo sequence
                	ref : J. Magn. Reson. Ser. A, 115, 260-264 (1995).   
               with convection compensation
                        ref: J. Magn. Reson. 125, 372-375 (1997).
           adapted by P. Sandor, Darmstadt, nov.1998

   Parameters:
        delflag   - 'y' runs the DgcsteSL_cc sequence
                    'n' runs the normal s2pul sequence
        del       - the actual diffusion delay
        del2      - delay parameter that can shift the convection compensation
                    sequence elements off the center of the pulse sequence 
                    allowing to run a velocity profile
                    can also be negative but in absolute value cannot exceed
                    del/2 minus the gradient and gradient-stabilization delays
                    (default value for diffusion measurements is zero)
        gt1       - total diffusion-encoding pulse width
        gzlvl1    - diffusion-encoding pulse strength
        alt_grd   - flag to invert gradient sign on alternating scans
                        (default = 'n')
       lkgate_flg - flag to gate the lock sampling off  during
                              gradient pulses
        gstab     - gradient stabilization delay (~0.0002-0.0003 sec)
        triax_flg - flag for using triax gradient amplifiers and probes
                    'y' - homospoil gradients are applied along X- and Y- axis
                          all the diffusion gradients are Z-gradients
                    'n' - all gradients in the sequence are Z-gradients
        kappa     - unbalancing factor between bipolar pulses as a
                       proportion of gradient strength (~0.2)
        gt2       - 1st homospoil gradient duration
        gzlvl2    - 1st homospoil gradient power level
                        will be X-gradient if triax_flg is set and triax
                        amplifier and probe is available
        gt3       - 2nd homospoil gradient duration
        gzlvl3    - 2nd homospoil gradient power level
                        will be Y-gradient if triax_flg is set and triax
                        amplifier and probe is available
        satmode   - flag for optional solvent presaturation
                    'ynn' - does presat during satdly
                    'yyn' - does presat during satdly and the diffusion delay
        satdly    - presaturation delay before the sequence (part of d1)
        satpwr    - saturation power level
        satfrq    - saturation frequency
        wet       - flag for optional wet solvent suppression
        sspul     - flag for a GRD-90-GRD homospoil block
        gzlvlhs   - gradient level for sspul
        hsgt      - gradient duration for sspul
        ncomp     - determines the number of components to be used in fitting
                        the signal decay in DOSY when dosyproc='discrete'.
        nugflag   - 'n' uses simple mono- or multi-exponential fitting to
                              estimate diffusion coefficients
                    'y' uses a modified Stejskal-Tanner equation in which the
                        exponent is replaced by a power series
     nugcal_[1-5] - a 5 membered parameter array summarising the results of a
                        calibration of non-uniform field gradients. Used if
                        nugcal is set to 'y'
                        requires a preliminary NUG-calibration by the 
                        Doneshot_nugmap sequence
        dosyproc  - 'discrete' - invokes monoexponential fitting with dosyfit if 
                        ncomp=1, and multiexponential fitting with the external
                        programme SPLMOD if ncomp>1.
                    'continuous' invokes processing with the external programme
                        CONTIN and gives a continuous distribution
                        in the diffusion domain.
     dosypypoints - 'n' divides the spectrum into individual peaks, creating one 
                        cross-peak for each individual peak found in the 1D spectrum
                    'y' performs a diffusion fit for every point in the displayed
                        region of the spectrum that lies above the threshold th
           probe_ - stores the probe name used for the dosy experiment
