Dghmqcidosy.c - Pulsed Field Gradient HMQC dosy for long range couplings 
		phase sensitive version 
 
Warning: This pulse sequence requires that 1/(2*j1xh) > del, i.e. the 
	transfer delay is longer than the diffusion delay

Reference: Phys. Chem. Chem Phys. 6, 3221-3227 (2004).

Parameters:
        del - the actual diffusion delay.
        gt1 - total diffusion-encoding pulse width.
     gzlvl1 - gradient amplitude (-32768 to +32768)
     gzlvlE - gradient amplitude for coherence selection (HMQC)
        gtE - gradient duration in seconds for coherence selection(0.002)
    EDratio - gradient ratio for HMQC selection
   gzlvl_max - maximum gradient power (2048 for porforma I,
                  32768 for Performa II, IV, and Triax )
      gstab - optional delay for stability
        pwx - 90. deg, X pulse
     pwxlvl - power level for pwx
    alt_grd - flag to invert gradient sign on alternating scans
                        (default = 'n')
 lkgate_flg - flag to gate the lock sampling off during    
                              gradient pulses
       j1xh - heteronuclear coupling for the Xfer delay
    satmode - 'yn' turns on presaturation during satdly
              'yy' turns on presaturation during satdly and del
              the presauration happens at the transmitter position
              (set tof right if presat option is used)
     satdly - presatutation delay (part of d1)
     satpwr - presaturation power
        wet - flag for optional wet solvent suppression
      sspul - flag for a GRD-90-GRD homospoil block
    gzlvlhs - gradient level for sspul
       hsgt - gradient duration for sspul
 lkgate_flg - flag to hold lock apart from d1
      phase - 1,2 for phase sensitive data 
   convcomp - 'y': selects convection compensated hmqcidosy
              'n': normal hmqcidosy
  nugflag   - 'n' uses simple mono- or multi-exponential fitting to
                   estimate diffusion coefficients
              'y' uses a modified Stejskal-Tanner equation in which the
                   exponent is replaced by a power series
nugcal_[1-5] - 5 membered parameter array summarising the results of a
                  calibration of non-uniform field gradients. Used if
                  nugcal is set to 'y'
                  requires a preliminary NUG-calibration by the 
                  Doneshot_nugmap sequence
 dosy3Dproc - 'y' calls dosy with 3D option for phase sensitive 
                  experiments (phase=1,2; set automatically)
     probe_ - stores the probe name used for the dosy experiment

Run the phase sensive 2D HMQC spectra in the same experiment.
Set the array as follows:
        array='gzlvl1,phase'
