Doneshot - Oneshot DOSY sequence based on modifications to the
           Bipolar pulse stimulated echo (BPPSTE) sequence

  Ref: M. D. Pelta, G. A. Morris, M. J. Tschedroff and S. J. Hammond:
	MRC 40, 147-152 (2002)
  For eliminating radiation damping: 
	M. A. Conell, A. L. Davis, A. M. Kenwright and G. A. Morris:
	Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 378, 1568-1573, (2004).
  For suppressing J-modulation effects (oneshot45):
	A. Botana, J. A. Aguilar, M. Nilsson and G. A. Morris
	JMR 208, 270 - 278 (2011)

Parameters:
        delflag   - 'y' runs the Doneshot sequence
                    'n' runs the normal s2pul sequence
	del       -  the actual diffusion delay
	gt1       - total diffusion-encoding pulse width
        gzlvl1    - diffusion-encoding pulse strength
        gstab     - gradient stabilization delay (~0.0002-0.0003 sec)
        gt3       - spoiling gradient duration (in sec)
        gzlvl3    - spoiling gradient strength (destroys transverse 
			magnetization during the diffusion delay)
        gzlvl_max - maximum accepted gradient strength
                       32767 with PerformaII, 2047 with PerformaI
        kappa     - unbalancing factor between bipolar pulses as a
                       proportion of gradient strength (~0.2)
	startflip - flip angle of the firts pulse to eliminate
			radiation damping for very concentrated samples
        alt_grd   - flag to invert gradient sign on alternating scans
                        (default = 'n')
       lkgate_flg - flag to gate the lock sampling off during    
                              gradient pulses
        sspul     - flag for a GRD-90-GRD homospoil block
        gzlvlhs   - gradient level for sspul
        hsgt      - gradient duration for sspul
        satmode   - flag for optional solvent presaturation
                    'yn' - does presat during satdly
                    'yy' - does presat during satdly and the diffusion delay
        satdly    - presaturation delay before the sequence (part of d1)
        satpwr    - saturation power level
        satfrq    - saturation frequency
	oneshot45_flg - flag for additional 45-degree pulse before acquisition
				suppresses J-modulation effects
        wet       - flag for optional wet solvent suppression
        ncomp     - determines the number of components to be used in fitting
                        the signal decay in DOSY when dosyproc='discrete'.
        nugflag   - 'n' uses simple mono- or multi-exponential fitting to
                          estimate diffusion coefficients
                    'y' uses a modified Stejskal-Tanner equation in which the
                          exponent is replaced by a power series
     nugcal_[1-5] - a 5 membered parameter array summarising the results of a
                        calibration of non-uniform field gradients. Used if
                        nugcal is set to 'y'
                        requires a preliminary NUG-calibration by the 
                        Doneshot_nugmap sequence
        dosyproc  - 'discrete' - invokes monoexponential fitting with dosyfit if 
                        ncomp=1, and multiexponential fitting with the external
                        programme SPLMOD if ncomp>1.
                    'continuous' invokes processing with the external programme
                        CONTIN and gives a continuous distribution
                        in the diffusion domain.
     dosypypoints - 'n' divides the spectrum into individual peaks, creating one 
                        cross-peak for each individual peak found in the 1D spectrum
                    'y' performs a diffusion fit for every point in the displayed
                        region of the spectrum that lies above the threshold th
           probe_ - stores the probe name used for the dosy experiment

The parameters for the heating gradients (gt4, gzlvl4) are calculated
in the sequence. They cannot be set directly.
tau defined as time between the mid-points of the bipolar diffusion encoding
gradient pulses
