Automated Spectral Compression

   This program uses a peak pick list from a standard sw1 2D
   experiment to calculate the maximum amount of spectral folding
   possible without overlap and outputs this value. The input peak list
   should not contain any aliased peaks. This option is
   now accessible from the Sampling page in the Acquire folder using the
   menu "Set Indirect Dimension Sampling Strategy". Selecting this option will
   perform  a peak picking of the displayed 2D spectrum. After entering the peak
   number having a representative linewidth, or entering representative
   linewidths for peaks in F1 and F2, the BestSW4varian.pl program
   is run with output of the new sw1 and ni to give the same indirect
   dimension resolution (with smaller sw1 and ni).

   The cross-peaks linewidths in F1 and F2 are directly related to the 
   allowed distance between the centers of two cross-peaks and have a 
   great effect on the degree of folding.

   This permits a much faster acquisition with the same resolution.
   Separate 2D experiments can be run for F1F3 and F2F3 2D planes
   to calculate new values of sw1 and sw2 for a fast 3D experiment.

   F1/F2 linewidths:
   When a clear crosspeak separation is required for precise intensity 
   or peak position extraction (15N relaxation, J-couplings experiments), 
   the F1/F2 linewidths should be set large enough, and should include at
   least the base of the broader cross-peak.

   When 3D experiments are run (e.g. H-N-X), partial overlap in the
   H-N plane can be allowed as long as the center of the 3D cross-peaks
   are well separated. Linewidths can be much smaller, for example
   15 Hz (@600MHz) in both (1H/15N) dimensions. 

   Chemical Shifts in F1:
   The correct frequencies are contained in the "reference" peak list used by ASCOM.
   The only requirement is to use an analysis/visualization software that can
   automatically fold the "reference" peak list during the mapping on the spectra. 
   NMRView does it very well. For instance, the "strips" command extract strips
   from 3D 1H-15N-X experiments at the correct folded 15N position. 
   The algorithm is very simple: subtract or add the spectral width value to the
   reference 15N frequency until the peak position falls into the spectral window
   (carrier+-SW/2).

   This is also true for ASCOMized 3D HNCO used for 4D experiments.
   For 4D HNCO-X spectra, a strips4D.tcl script for extracting H-X strips
   at the aliased N/CO frequencies for NMRView is present in a standalone
   ASCOM package that will be very soon online on the IBS website. 
   Unfortunately, it seems that sparky does not allow automatic folding. 
 
   See Lescop, Schanda, Rasia and Brutscher, JACS, 129, 2756-2757(2007)
