Description of BioPack Options in "Globals&Probefile" Page
**********************************************************
Update Probefile Buttons:

 "Update Probefile....."
   These buttons run macros that update the current probefile using
   the powers and pw90's listed (these are obtained from the current
   values in the current parameter set). The 1H button only updates
   the 1H section of the probefile, as does the 15N button. The 13C
   button updates the pw90 and also re-creates all 13C waveforms.
   The 1H update scales up or down all fine powers present in the 1H
   section of the probefle to reflect the change in pw90.
   The 15N update also creates waveforms for decoupling.

 "Update Probefile with Parameter Values in this Parameter Set"
   This button is only visible when the ghn_co parameter set is
   present. This runs the BPbiopack2 macro which does a full update
   on all nuclei, including re-creation of all waveforms and shaped
   pulses. It must be used at installation after reasonable parameter
   values have been entered for the rf channels. The same macro is
   run during the AutoCalibrate process.

Check Boxes:

 "Do Automatic FID Noise Check at 'go'"
   This sets the global parameter BPautonoisecheck to 1. The
   "Acquisition Actions" menu on the action bar for the "Acquire"
   menu runs BPgo. If BPautonoisecheck=1, BPgo runs BPchecknoise to
   record time-domain noise under standard conditions (no pulses) to
   measure the effect of the sample on the noise level. This is done
   for the cases of an empty probe and probe with sample. AutoTest
   history files are automatically produced to show results.

 "Show Basic Panel in Acquire List"
   This makes the "Basic" page visible in the Acquire folder. The
   Basic pages permit rapid setup of all experiments, with the
   choice of experiment type (1D, F1F2, F1F3, F2F3 or 3D) with
   default 1ppm resolution in indirect dimension(s) and nt=8. The
   time of the experiment is displayed after a choice is made. 
   Customization of parameters (nt, ni, ni2) is possible and the
   pulse sequence manual is displayable on request. The use of
   a Basic page requires that the probefile be accurate for the
   sample used.

 "Use gCfhsqc in AutoCalibrates"
   This uses the gCfhsqc (3919 watergate) pulse sequence in
   place of hcch_tocsy (with no spinlock or decoupling) for the
   1H and 13C calibration steps. The sequence is simpler and may
   be less prone to error when BioPack AutoCalibrate is used the
   first time on a system. 

 "BioPack Power Limits"
   This permits user-defined attenuator limits for the rf
   channels, including limits for decoupling waveforms. When
   Autocalibrate procedures run, macros re-create decoupling
   waveforms and if the resulting power levels are in excess
   of these limits, the waveforms are re-created at these
   powers. A maximum 13C spinlock field (in Hz) is also avail-
   able, and this value is used for re-creating spinlock 
   waveforms if needed during the autocalibrate runs.
   Updating a probefile with any button involving 13C will also
   result in a re-creation of 13C decoupling and spinlock
   waveforms. 

   1H spinlocks are also limited by the global parameter
   BPtpwrspinlock which is enterable in the BioPack Power Limits
   group.

 "Default Spinlock Field Strengths"
   The default value for experiments using a 1H spin lock
   is given by the global parameter BP1Hspinlock. This value is
   enterable under the title "Default Spinlock Fields" along
   with the 13C default spinlock (BPspinlock) normally used for all
   experiments. These values are often lower than the maximum
   user-defined spinlock values. The 13C value is used for probefile
   updates and when new spinlock waveforms are generated. Entry
   of this parameter also runs the appropriate macro to re- 
   generate only the spinlock waveforms.

   All 1H experiments involving a 1H spinlock (tocsy) have setup
   macros that set the tocsy spinlock field strength to the default
   value BP1Hspinlock described above. The user is still free to change
   the spinlock field strength (usually governed by the parameter
   "strength" by the appropriate entry box. The entry of a value will
   also run a macro BPspinlock which checks the new value against the
   BioPack spinlock power limit BPtpwrspinlock and, if in excess, sets 
   the strength=BPtpwrspinlock (if BioPack power limits are active).
   The same check is done for 13C spinlocks, and if the spinlock field
   strength is changed a new waveform cctocsy.DEC is regenerated by Pbox.

Activation Buttons:

 "Activate Absolute Power Limits for each Channel"
   This button creates global parameters for each channel
   and displays these attenuator limits at the bottom right
   of this page. These are pulse sequence and parameter set
   independent limits that are used by the "go" program. 
   They are useful for probe protection. Because they are
   global variables for each user, they only apply to the
   current user. 

 "Activate Qcomp Option"
   This button creates the "qcomp" global variable and
   displays a check box. qcomp should be set to 'y' for
   cold probes used on INOVA or Unityplus spectrometers
   only. The activate button is not visible for VNMRS consoles.

 "Activate Disabling Gradient Option"
   This button creates the "gradientdisable" global variable
   and associated checkbox. When the checkbox is checked
   any pulse sequence using zgradpulse is executed with the
   gradient amplitudes set to zero, to permit shimming while
   running the experiment. This may be useful if decoupling
   induces a change in field homogeneity.

 "Activate Gradient Shaping Option"
   This button creates the "gradientshaping" global variable
   and associated checkbox. When the checkbox is checked
   all zgradpulse events have a "wurst" shape to provide a
   smooth start and end to the gradient. It is often used
   for cold probes or any probes that have a longer than
   desired field recovery. Gradient calibrations may change
   for this option being used or not.

 "Activate probeConnect Option"
   This creates the global variable "probeConnect" and the
   associated entry box.


DSS in Spectrum

  If a 1H spectrum is run using DSS as a reference, either of two
  buttons may be used to calculate proper values for dof and dof2 to
  be at 174ppm and 120ppm respectively. The "Automatically" button
  will search for the strongest line between -0.5ppm and 1.5ppm and
  will use this as the DSS line. This runs the BPfindfrqs macro.

  Alternatively, the user may place the cursor on the DSS line 
  manually and then use the "Cursor on DSS" button to run the
  macro BPfindfrqs(1) macro.

  In either case, equations relating the ratios of 1H/13C/15N frequencies
  on an absolute basis are used to determine the proper values of 
  dof and dof2. Then the probefile can be updated to store these
  values in the probefile.

  There may be small differences between this method and using
  "setoffset". Setoffset is used when BioPack is first installed
  and via the menus on the Channels.xml page.
