Processing of Sparse Sampling Data

Compressive Sensing uses random sampling for greater
resolution with fewer data points. The  processing 
is based on the CLEAN technique also known 
as "soft thresholding"

The default data processing software CLEAN can 
process all randomly sampled data provided the 
sampling points are on the Fourier grid. That 
includes data acquired using the Orekhov method, 
but excludes explicit MFT-type data sampling.
 
The following actions are expected. 

The first section of the panel deals with the 
processing setup parameters. 

The "Use default processing params" check box 
is provided for convenience and simplicity. It 
sets zero filling factor to twice the expected 
number of data points (e.g., fn1=4*nimax) and 
applies the optimum squared-sinebell window 
functions. If not checked, it is up to the user 
to ensure the desired window functions are set 
prior to the processing in the normal VnmrJ 
processing panels.

The "Partial Region" check box and the adjacent 
selection menu allow the user to reduce the 
portion of the spectrum used for processing. 
This greatly accelerates the processing for 
data sets, such as NH-detected bio-NMR experiments 
that involve large unused portions of the spectrum 
that do not include signals. If unchecked, the 
entire spectral window is used by the subsequent 
processing. Note that when the check box is activated, 
the current position of the cursors is read. 
Therefore, if the cursors are subsequently moved 
to a new position, the selection menu must be 
used again or the check box reactivated so that 
the correct position of the cursors is registered.

The "Sensitivity enhanced data' check box indicates 
that at least one of the dimensions was recorded 
using the so called 'sensitivity enhanced" scheme. 
In practice it detects the setting of f1coef, 
f2coef and f3coef parameters and uses their current 
settings. It is up to the user to ensure the correct 
setting for these parameters. If the box is unchecked, 
no sensitivity enhancement processing is activated 
whatever the parameter setting. Note that BioPack 
setup macros normally set these parameters.

The "Inflate" check box expands the data set according 
to the nimax (ni2max, ni3max) settings by filling the 
gaps in the sampling schedule with zeros. This is 
required for proper functioning of subsequent CLEAN 
processing, but may not be needed for other types of 
processing, such as MDD or MFT.

The "CLEAN" check box ensures that the CLEAN 
software will be applied by the subsequent data 
processing. If CLEAN check box is not activated, 
the conventional multi-dimensional Fourier transform 
can still be applied except the sampling artefacts 
are not suppressed in any way. 

The adjacent "threshold" entry box allows setting 
the relative threshold with respect to the noise 
level for CLEAN processing. A higher threshold speeds 
up the processing whereas a lower number makes the 
result more accurate. The minimum allowed threshold 
is set to 1.0 and the recommended values are 2.0 for 
2D processing and 4.0 for 3D processing. 

The "de-noise" checkbox activates the de-noising 
option in CLEAN processing. If activated, the residual 
noise is not added to the final spectrum. This reduces 
the appearance of the t1-noise-like artefacts in the 
final spectrum which helps when displaying and plotting 
spectra with high dynamic range. Note however,  that 
depending on the "threshold" setting,  the noise floor 
may contain individual noise spikes that can resemble 
weak peaks and the line shape may appear somewhat 
distorted, particularly in non-constant time experiments. 
Some weaker peaks may be lost.

Before using the "process" button, all phases 
in all dimensions should be set properly since 
the final data will not be phaseable.

The second part of processing panel ("Process") 
uses the declared processing options. The "process" 
button will use the processing options set up in the 
first section of the panel. The following sequence 
of operations will be executed automatically. First, 
the procdir directory is created in the current 
experiment and the old procdir is removed, if it 
exists. The original data is saved in that directory 
as orig.fid together with the sampling schedule. The 
data is first Fourier transformed in the direct 
dimension and a full arsenal of VJ parameters and 
options, such as linear prediction (direct dimension), 
window functions, solvent suppression, baseline 
correction etc, are active. Make sure that the data 
is properly phased before the 3D and 4D processing 
is activated. The processed data is then down-sampled 
in the direct dimension and the active spectral region 
is selected and the data saved as rsw.fid by the 
rsw command. The rsw.log file contains the output 
from this command and can be consulted in the case 
of processing failure. Then, if the sensitivity 
enhancement option is active, the proc_se command 
is executed and the processing report is saved in 
the proc_se.log file that can be inspected in the 
case of processing failure. The recombined data is 
saved with the same rsw.fid name. Next, the data 
is inflated (missing points replaced by zeros) by 
activating the inflateND command. The output data 
is saved as inf.fid and the processing report is 
saved as inflateND.log text file. Finally, the 
optional CLEAN processing is started provided the 
above operations have been successful. For 2D 
experiments it is executed by cln2d command and 
is usually fast. The output data is saved as time 
domain data in cln2d.fid and the processing report 
is documented in the cln2d.log file. Once the CLEAN 
processing is finished the output data can be processed 
in VJ using the “2D” button or from any other 
processing panel and all VJ processing options 
are available. The 3D data sets are processed by 
cln3d command and the processed data is saved in 
the cln3d.fid file.

The 3D CLEAN processing can be interrupted using 
the "Abort" button. In order to re-process the data 
activate the "restore original data" button which 
will retrieve the original data set and the processing 
setup and the subsequent steps can be re-executed 
as described above. The processing report is saved 
as cln3d.log text file. Note that 3D processing can 
be relatively slow, depending on the data size and 
the processing options. Therefore, the processing is 
run in the background and messages about the beginning 
and end of the CLEAN processing are displayed in the 
VnmrJ message window in due course. Note that the end 
result is saved as frequency domain data and 
cannot be re-phased. 

Therefore, it is important that the processing parameters 
and phases are set before the clean processing is started.

The window functions (appropriate lb, sb, gf) and 
zero-filling options (fn2, fn3) will be active during 
the CLEAN processing. The data is then displayed using 
the ft3d("noft") option via the "3D" button. This will 
convert the cln3d.fid data into a format that can be 
displayed by VNMRJ software.

The 3D spectra (projections and individual planes) are 
displayable by using the other display panels only 
after the message signalling the end of ft3d processing 
appears in the VJ window.
   
CLEAN Parameters

All the parameters in this section are activated and 
set via the graphical user interface, but can be 
accessed also via the command line. 

SPARSE   flag (y or n) indicating whether sparse 
         sampling is used in the current experiment. 
         The flag is used to activate sparse sampling panels.
stype	 flag indicating the sampling type
   	 y or a indicates automatic sampling scheduling;
   	 n and any other letter except y and a indicates 
         that an existing schedule is used.
   
skey	- parameter (integer) containing the seed for 
          the random number generator used to create 
          the sampling schedules. A positive number indicates 
          that the sampling schedule is executed sequentially. 
          A negative number indicates that the sampling schedule 
          is applied randomly.

nimax	- the maximum number of data points in the t1 domain 
          that the data set is to be expanded to. This defines 
          the maximum evolution time in t1.
CSlines	- (integer) contains the number of sampling schedule 
          lines to be displayed in the text window at the user request.
CSsp	- (integer) contains the starting point of the region 
          of interest (in real data points).
CSwp	- (integer) contains the width of the region of 
          interest (in real data points).
CS_se 	- flag (y or n) indicating whether the sensitivity 
          enhanced processing will be activated.
CS_inf	- flag (y or n) indicating whether the data need be inflated.
CS_cln	- flag (y or n) indicating whether CLEAN processing 
          will be activated.
CS_dpars - flag (y or n) indicating whether default processing 
          parameters will be used.
CSdnoise - flag (y or n) indicating whether de-noising option 
          in the CLEAN processing. If CSdnoise is set to y, 
          the residual noise is not added to the final spectrum. 
          This reduces the appearance of the t1-noise like 
          artefacts in the final spectrum and helps when displaying 
          and plotting spectra with high dynamic range. Note however 
          that depending on the CSthr setting the noise floor may 
          contain individual noise spikes that can resemble weak 
          peaks and the line shape may appear somewhat distorted 
          particularly in non-constant time experiments. Some weaker 
          peaks may be lost.
CSthr -   parameter (real); sets the relative threshold with respect 
          to the noise level for CLEAN processing. A higher threshold 
          speeds up the processing whereas a lower number makes the 
          result more accurate. The minimum allowed threshold is set 
          to 1.0 and the recommended values are 2.0 for 2D processing 
          and 4.0 for 3D processing.

CLEAN Macros

All the macros in the CLEAN software are designed for use with the 
panels and are not expected to be used manually. Therefore this 
section is rather technical and for documentation purposes only.

parCS 	- creates the parameters required for random sampling 
          and CLEAN processing.
cln2d 	- executes 2D CLEAN processing; executes the cln2d 
          command in a shell.
cln3d 	- executes 3D CLEAN processing; executes the cln3d 
          command in a shell; activates the processing monitoring 
          script cln3dwait which reports end of the cln3d processing.
CScoef	- checks f1coef, f2coef and f3coef settings and indicates 
          if any sensitivity enhanced experiment domains are present. 
          The macro is used to set up flags for the proc_se command.
CSdensity - calculates the sampling density; used to display sampling 
          density in the acquisition panel. 
CSdpars - sets the default processing parameters for the CLEAN processing
CSinflate - sets up the data expansion options and executes the inflateND 
          command in a shell;
CSppp 	- sets up the flags for CLEAN processing panels.
CSproc	- controls the CLEAN processing flow; executes the individual 
          processing macros.
CSproc_se - executes proc_se command in a shell; called by the CSproc macro.
CSrsw 	- executes rsw command in a shell; Called by the CSproc macro.
CS_select - selects the region of interest and sets the CSsp and CSwp 
          parameters. 
print_sch - prints a number of lines from the sampling.sch file in the 
          text (alpha) window.
psg4cs	- modifies an existing pulse sequence to allow use of a sampling 
          schedule; executes the psg4cs command in a shell; used by the 
          "psg check" button in the experiment setup panel. 
xcln3d 	- terminates the 3D CLEAN processing; used by the Abort 
          button in the processing panels.


References for CLEAN: 
E. Kupce and R. Freeman, J. Magn. Reson., vol. 173, 
 pp. 317-321 (2006);
K. Kazimierczuk, et al, J. Magn. Reson., vol. 188, 
 pp. 344-356 (2007);
J. Wen, J. Wu and P. Zhou, J. Magn. Reson., vol. 209, 
 pp. 94-100 (2011);

