dpfgse_noesy -   NOESY experiment with water suppression by gradient echo.
                    with optional ZQ artifact suppression during mixing  

Literature reference:
        T.L. Hwang and A.J. Shaka; JMR A112, 275-279 (1995) dpfgse
        C. Dalvit; J. Biol. NMR, 11, 437-444 (1998) dpfgse
        M.J. Trippleton and J. Keeler;
             Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2003, 42 3938-3941. ZQ suppression
       T.Scherf and J.Anglister, Biophys.J.,64,754-761(1993) trim

Parameters:
        sspul       - flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady-state sequence
        gt0         - gradient duration for sspul
        gzlvl0      - gradient power for sspul
	mix	    - mixing time 
        zqflg	    - flap for optional ZQ artifact suppression
	gt1	    - gradient duration for the HS pulse during mix
	gzlvl1	    - gradient power for the HS pulse during mix
        flipback    - flag for an optional selective 90 flipback pulse
                                on the solvent to keep it along z all time
        flipshape   - shape of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippw      - pulse width of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwr     - power level of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwrf    - fine power for flipshape by default it is 2048
                        may need optimization with fixed flippw and flippwr
        phincr1     - small angle phase shift between the hard and the
                            selective pulse for flipback='y' (1 deg. steps)
                            to be optimized for best result
        wrefshape   - shape file of the 180 deg. selective refocussing pulse
                        on the solvent (may be convoluted for 
				multiple solvents)
        wrefpw     - pulse width for wrefshape (as given by Pbox)
        wrefpwr    - power level for wrefshape (as given by Pbox) 
        wrefpwrf   - fine power for wrefshape
                      by default it is 2048 needs optimization for
                      multiple solvent suppression with fixed wrefpw 
        gt2        - gradient duration for the solvent suppression echo
        gzlvl2     - gradient power for the solvent suppression echo
        alt_grd    - flag for alternating gradient sign in mix-dpfgse segment
        gstab      - gradient stabilization delay
        trim_flg   - flag for an optional trim pulse at the end of the 
		       sequence
                       set trim_flg='y' tu suppress protein background
        trim       - pulse width of the trim pusle for trim_flg='y'
        trimpwr    - power level for the trim pulse for trim_flg='y'
        compH      - amplifier compression factor for H1

The water refocussing shape and the water flipback shape can be created/updatedted
using the "update_wrefshape" and "update_flipshape" macros, respectively. For
multiple frequency solvent suppression the wrefshape file needs to be created
manually.
The parameters: gcal_local, coil_size and h1freq_local necessary
 for ZQ suppression are taken from the probe file by the setup macro or
 calculated automatically.
 The parameter swfactor controling the width of the frequency range to be
 refocused for the ZQ filter is set to 9.0 in the pulse sequence. For
 wide spectral windows the inversion range is limited to 60 kHZ to prevent
 dangerously high gradient levels to be set.

p. sandor, darmstadt june 2003.
