 STD-dpfgse_noesy -   NOESY experiment with water suppression by gradient echo.
                    with optional ZQ artifact suppression during mixing

Literature reference:
        T.L. Hwang and A.J. Shaka; JMR A112, 275-279 (1995) dpfgse
        C. Dalvit; J. Biol. NMR, 11, 437-444 (1998) dpfgse
        M.J. Trippleton and J. Keeler;
             Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2003, 42 3938-3941. ZQ suppression
        M Mayer and B. Meyer: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 38, No12 p. 1784 1999.
                                  STD difference

Parameters:
        sspul       - flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady-state sequence
        gt0         - gradient duration for sspul
        gzlvl0      - gradient power for sspul
        mix         - mixing time
        zqflg       - flap for optional ZQ artifact suppression
        gt1         - gradient duration for the HS pulse during mix
        gzlvl1      - gradient power for the HS pulse during mix
        flipback    - flag for an optional selective 90 flipback pulse
                                on the solvent to keep it along z all time
        flipshape   - shape of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippw      - pulse width of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwr     - power level of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwrf    - fine power for flipshape by default it is 2048
                        may need optimization with fixed flippw and flippwr
        phincr1     - small angle phase shift between the hard and the
                            selective pulse for flipback='y' (1 deg. steps)
                            to be optimized for best result
        wrefshape   - shape file of the 180 deg. selective refocussing pulse
                        on the solvent (may be convoluted for
                                multiple solvents)
        wrefpw     - pulse width for wrefshape (as given by Pbox)
        wrefpwr    - power level for wrefshape (as given by Pbox)
        wrefpwrf   - fine power for wrefshape
                      by default it is 2048 needs optimization for
                      multiple solvent with fixed wrefpw suppression only
        gt2        - gradient duration for the solvent suppression echo
        gzlvl2     - gradient power for the solvent suppression echo
        alt_grd    - flag for alternating gradient sign in mix-dpfgse segment
        gstab      - gradient stabilization delay
        xferdly     - saturation transfer delay ( ~1.5-2sec)
        satshape    - shape of the pulses in the pulse-train (def:gauss)
        d3          - interpulse delay in the xfer pulsetrain
                        ( 1 msec is recommenden in the literature
                                with no obvious reason)
        satpwr      - power level for the saturation pulse-train
                       (in the literature 86 Hz peak power is recommended
                       corresponding to a 630 deg. flip angle at 50 msec satpw
                       please note that the actual flip angle is irrelevant,
                       the selectivity is controlled by the power level, satpwr)
        satpw       - pulse width of the shaped pulses in the pulse train
                            duration ca 50 ms
        satfrq      - frequency for protein saturation
                         (use a region with an intense protein signal
                         and NO ligand signal)
        satfrqref   - reference frequency (outside the signal region ~at 30ppm)
        trim_flg   - flag for an optional trim pulse at the end of the
                       sequence
                       set trim_flg='y' tu suppress protein background
        trim       - pulse width of the trim pusle for trim_flg='y'
        trimpwr    - power level for the trim pulse for trim_flg='y'
p. sandor, darmstadt march 2006.
        trimpwr    - power level for the trim pulse for trim_flg='y'
p. sandor, darmstadt march 2006.

