dpfgse_water -   experiment with water suppression by gradient echo.  
Literature reference: 
	T.L. Hwang and A.J. Shaka; JMR A112, 275-279 (1995)
	C. Dalvit; J. Biol. NMR, 11, 437-444 (1998)

Parameters:
	sspul	    - flag for optional GRD-90-GRD steady-state sequence
	gt0	    - gradient duration for sspul
	gzlvl0	    - gradient power for sspul
	flipback    - flag for an optional selective 90 flipback pulse
				on the solvent to keep it along z all time
	flipshape   - shape of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
	flippw	    - pulse width of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
	flippwr	    - power level of the selective pulse for flipback='y'
        flippwrf    - fine power for flipshape by default it is 2048
                        may need optimization with fixed flippw and flippwr
	phincr1	    - small angle phase shift between the hard and the
		            selective pulse for flipback='y' (1 deg. steps)
                            to be optimized for best result
	wrefshape   - shape file of the 180 deg. selective refocussing pulse
			on the solvent (may be convoluted for multiple solvents)
	wrefpw	    - pulse width for wrefshape (as given by Pbox)
	wrefpwr	    - power level for wrefshape (as given by Pbox)	
        wrefpwrf    - fine power for wrefshape by default it is 2048
		        needs optimization for multiple solvent suppression only
				with fixed wrefpw 
        gt2	    - gradient duration for the solvent suppression echo
	gzlvl2	    - gradient power for the solvent suppression echo
        alt_grd     - alternate gradient sign(s) in dpfgse on even transients
	gstab	    - gradient stabilization delay
	trim_flg    - flag for an optional trim pulse at the end of the sequence
				set trim_flg='y' tu suppress protein background
	trim	    - pulse width of the trim pusle for trim_flg='y' (in seconds!!)	
        trimpwr	    - power level for the trim pulse for trim_flg='y'
        compH       - 1H amplifier compression

The water refocussing shape and the water flipback shape can be created/updatedted
using the "update_wrefshape" and "update_flipshape" macros, respectively. For
multiple frequency solvent suppression the wrefshape file needs to be created
manually.
p. sandor, darmstadt june 2003.
