 gmacosy.c      

   gradient based magic-angle dqcosy
	uses PSelements:
	vagradpulse(gzlvl(G/cm),gtime,theta,phi) as arguments

   (from  gemqfcosy_magradpulse_dlm.c, D.Mattiello, Varian )   

   First Use: destroy any current gcoil parameter in your parameter set.
              then enter "updtgcoil". this assumes you have a sysgcoil
              parameter and an entry in /vnmr/imaging/gradtables

   Phase Cycling:
	basic scheme is t1 t2 t3 t4 --> 0 0 1 0
	then add 180 to first pulse and receiver for x,-x cycle for improved
		water suppression and because the receiver is cycled
		x,-x it also corrects for dc imbalance --> 2 0 1 2
	then add 90 to every pulse in the nt=2 cycle for cyclops for 
		correction of quadrature imbalance 
	the States (0,90 on 1st pulse and receiver) and
	TPPI (FAD - f1 axial displacement) done within pulse sequence  

   Because the presence of the last gradient delays acquisition, use lsfid=-n
   where n is the number of dwell times happening in the delay gt2+final delay.
   The FT process will create n complex data points of zero amplitude at the start of the
   fid, but the time registration of the real data points will be correct. Tranformed
   data should have the first-order phase correction(lp) near zero. The spectrum
   can then be phased with both rp and lp. An estimate of the number of dwell-times
   in error can be calculated from the determined lp value (each additional dwell
   time will produce a need to add -360 degrees of lp). Correct the value of lsfid
   by this amount and re-transform. Set lp to zero and see if you can phase the
   whole F2 dimension with just rp. If so, this is the correct value of lsfid.

   Since there is very little signal in the first points the presence of zero
   intensities should give little or no distortion. However, these "n" points 
   may be linear-predicted. Enter "dg('dglp')" to see values used for n=11. Set
   these parameters appropriately for your value of "n", set proc='lp' and wft2da.
   The linear prediction parameters to be changed are:

     (recall that lsfid is negative)
      strtlp    should be = -lsfid +1  (data point corresponding to first "real" point)
      strtext   should be = -lsfid
      lpext     should be = -lsfid
      other lp parameters should not be changed

  modified for BioPack, GG Varian Palo Alto, jan 1999
