  gNcpmgex.c (TROSY version)

This pulse sequence will allow one to perform the following experiments:
"Constant Relaxation Time CPMG experiment for NH" to identify Rex due to
(millisecond) motions. The resultant spectral intensity is attenuated by
the relaxation rate of the trosy component with a contribution Rex
that is dependent on the pulse spacing (2*tauCPMG) employed.

           F1      15N
           F2(acq)  1H (NH)
 
This sequence uses the standard three channel configuration
   1)  1H    - carrier (tof) @ 4.7 ppm [H2O]
   2) 13C    - carrier (dof) @  57 ppm [CA]
   3) 15N    - carrier (dof2)@ 119 ppm [centre of backbone amide NH]
 

 Constant Relaxation Time adaptation of:
      J.P. Loria, M. Rance & A.G. Palmer, III
      JACS 121, 2331-2332 (1999)
      (note there is a small mistake in their sequence (Fig.1);
       the second 1H 90 degree pulse should have phase y)

 Trosy adaptation of:
      Tollinger et al., JACS 123, 11341-11352, 2001

 If necessary one can do standard presaturation.  Note: presaturation
 is done using the transmitter with the power level set by 'tsatpwr'
 Irradiation is done with the carrier sitting at tofps. One can assign
 a different value to tof (e.g. center of amides) if required.

 No decoupling during acquisition
 Processing: use f1coef='1 0 -1 0 0 1 0 1' and wft2da

 Written by L.E.Kay on Nov. 19, 2001
 modified from  N15_CPMG_Rex_NH_trosy_lek_500.c for BioPack (GG jul03)

 f1180 setting of tau1 corrected and 13C decoupling option added 
   (Steve Van Doren, U.Missouri jan08)


Modified the amplitude of the flipback pulse(s) (pwHs) to permit user 
adjustment around theoretical value (tpwrsl). If tpwrsf < 4095.0 the 
value of tpwrsl is increased 6db and values of tpwrsf of 2048 or so 
should give equivalent amplitude. In cases of severe radiation damping
( which happens during pwHs) the needed flip angle may be much less than
90 degrees, so tpwrsf should be lowered to a value to minimize the 
observed H2O signal in single-scan experiments (with ssfilter='n').
(GG jul03)

Auto-calibrated version, E.Kupce, jul03.


 Radiation Damping:
   At fields 600MHz and higher with high-Q probes, radiation damping is a
   factor to be considered. Its primary effect is in the flipback pulse
   calibration. Radiation damping causes a rotation back to the +Z axis
   even without a flipback pulse. Hence, the pwHs pulse often needs to 
   be reduced in its flip-angle. This can be accomplished by using the
   parameter tpwrsf. If this value is less than 4095.0 the value of tpwrsl
   (calculated in the psg code) is increased by 6dB, thereby permitting
   the value of tpwrsf to be optimized to obtain minimum H2O in the 
   spectrum. The value of tpwrsf is typically lower than 2048 (half-maximum
   to compensate for the extra 6dB in tpwrsl). 

   The autocal and checkofs flags are generated automatically in Pbox_bio.h
   If these flags do not exist in the parameter set, they are automatically 
   set to 'y' - yes. In order to change their default values, create the  
   flag(s) in your parameter set and change them as required. 
   The available options for the checkofs flag are: 'y' (yes) and 'n' (no). 
   The offset (tof, dof, dof2 and dof3) checks can be switched off  
   individually by setting the corresponding argument to zero (0.0).
   For the autocal flag the available options are: 'y' (yes - by default), 
   'q' (quiet mode - suppress Pbox output), 'r' (read from file, no new  
   shapes are created), 's' (semi-automatic mode - allows access to user  
   defined parameters) and 'n' (no - use full manual setup, equivalent to 
   the original code).

   if BioPack power limits are in effect (BPpwrlimits=1) the cpmg 15N 
   amplitude is decreased by 3dB and pulse width increased 40%


 If comp_flg='y' there is a N15 pulse applied after d1 to compensate for RF/coil
 heating from the cpmg pulse train. This pulse be longest for the ncyc small and
 increases with ncyc to maintain a constant heating as a function of ncyc. Cryogenic
 probe tuning and shimming can be sensitive to power dissapation, so this compensates
 for the heating. Room temperature probes are not as sensitive to coil heating or
 deshimming, but may experience sample heating.

 The pulse is applied at dpwr2_comp power and the duration is calculated within the
 pulse sequence. The power should be determined by setting up a cpmg pulse train
 for the maximum ncyc to be used, starting the sequence, and then determining the
 heating power remaining (for a cold probe) after attaining steady-state. This should
 be done with comp_flg='n'. Then, set the N15 power levels other that dpwr2_comp to
 zero,ncyc=0 and set comp_flg='y'. Set ncyc_max to the largest ncyc value to be used
 in the queue of experiments. Try various compensation power levels until the heating
 power value achieves the same level as above. This represents a power level that
 produces the same heating as the cpmg pulse train.

 Now re-set ncyc and the cpmg pulse train power level to their proper values and leave
 comp_flg='y'. Use sufficient steady-state pulses to get to a stable heater value and
 then run the series of 2D experiments as a function of ncyc, one after the other.

 Once this is done the heating characteristics should be very similar from sample to
 sample so that the same settings could be used.
