water-

   This pulse sequence has options for the most popular water suppression
methods. Each option has its own dedicated parameters which become visible
in "dg" when the option has the value 'y'. No attempt is made in "dg" to
prevent more than one method from being used (neither is there any attemp
in psg code). Users could either modify the code or modify (or create) a
usergo macro that would check on the values of options and abort acquisition
with message if more than one option is accidentally selected.



	THE SEQUENCE ALSO CONTAINS AN OPTION FOR N15 AND C13 DECOUPLING

	      The aquisition time is limited to 0.175ms.

Presat='y'
   Performs classic observe xmter presat with optional pfg homospoil(sspul='y'). 
   Homospoil is controlled by a gradient time of gt0 (sec) at level gzlvl0.
   Satmode is used like "dm" to select periods of saturation at frequency
   satfrq, power satpwr, for duration satdly. A composite 90 option is
   excercised when composit='y'. Sequence is essentially s2pul for d1,p1,d2,pw.

Scuba='y'
   When presat='y', scuba may be used to restore some "bleached" proton      
   intensity for those protons near in shift to the water. 

Shaped='y'
   Same as presat='y' but all rf controlled by waveform generator. Useful for
   calibrating shaped pulses even in non-suppression experiments. 
   The p1 pulse is at p1frq, of shape p1shape, at power p1pwr and for
   duration p1. The second pulse is of length pw, at frequency tof, at power
   pwpwr and of shape pwshape. The solvent saturation is optional during
   relaxation and d2 delays under satmode control (like "dm") at satfrq
   with power satpwr and shape satshape (use "hard" for normal operation).

Jumpret='y'
   Does a simple jump-and-return experiment with pulses jrp1 and jrpw
   separated by delay jrdelay. jrpw is usually 25ns or so shorter for
   best suppression. Vary tof over +-100 Hz to find best suppression.
   sspul='y' does gradient homospoil prior to d1, with different lengths
   of homospoil for each transient to avoid gradient-recalled echos.

   For Literature discussion: see P.J. Hore, J.Magn.Reson.,55,283-300(1983)

Wet='y'
   Does a presat experiment in which the presat can take only 20-100msec.
   After d1 there is a series of four selective pulses on water, each 
   followed by a gradient. This can achieve very good suppression and
   also be used for multiple line suppression by making the selective
   pulse multifrequency (use convolute macro or Pbox). The gradient is
   controlled by the time gtw at level gzlvlw. The selective pulse
   wetshape is at a power level wetpwr for a time wetpw. wetpw should be
   calibrated as a 90 degree pulse length for the shape wetshape and power
   wetpwr. The wet "pulse" is broken up into 4 individual pulses each
   followed by different gradients. In some cases use of a composite pulse
   will produce better suppression (composit='y').

   Literature: S.Smallcombe, S.L.Patt and P.A. Keifer, J.Magn.Reson.A,117,295(1995).

Watergate='y'
   This may be done in either a soft-pulse(flagsoft='y') or hard-pulse 
   (flag3919='y' or flagW5='y') version.

   The water-selective soft pulse can be of any desired shape. If autosoft='y',the
   power is calculated by the psg code (always a "sinc") based on pw and compH.
   The soft pulse width is user-enterable. This soft pulse may be used for
   flipback purposes for all methods of watergate. It is also used within
   the spin-echo if flagsoft='y'.

   A soft pulse prior to the first high power pulse is done when flipback='y',
   for purposes of keeping water along Z during d1 and at (to reduce 
   intensity losses of other protons via chemical exchange with water.
   Further empirical improvement in suppression can be had by arraying
   phincr1 and phincr2 from -10 to 10. Fine adjustment of the 180 is
   controlled by p180 (vary for best suppression). flippw should be short
   enough so relaxation is no problem, but long enough so that nearby
   protons are not suppressed as well (suggest 2-5msec).

   Literature: soft-pulse  Piotto et.al., J.Biomol.NMR, 2,661(1992)
               hard-pulse  Sklenar et.al., J.Magn.Res., 102, 241(1993)
                       W5  Liu et.al, J.Magn.Res., 132, 125(1998)
